fringe opinions on Bitcoin and UAPs four
or 5 years ago are now like increasingly
like normie. The reality of non-human
intelligence was like fully out there.
Now it's like coming in and now you got
psionics. It's like oof. Well, okay,
that's the that's the new thing out
[music] there. But that's probably also
coming in. Consciousness and light
beings and meditative practices. It's
like we're rediscovering a lot of like
ancient sort of knowledge, right? It's
just being reinterpreted through our
modern frame. What sort of disclosure
are we going to get? And also like what
is the curve that you think is [music]
like behind these data points? Is it the
non-human intelligence is alien
civilizations and some advanced
spacecraft coming here to monitor us
curve? Is it time travelers? Is it
cryptoaterrestrials? Is it
interdimensionals? It does feel like
this sort of Pandora's [music] box. You
have hope, but then there's like a whole
lot of like, you know, bad stuff that
comes with it. [music]
Not all knowledge is just, oh, this is a
rainbow. Oh, this is like forever
knowledge. There's no guarantee that the
box of knowledge humanity is dipping its
hand into is going to be like [music]
good knowledge. Bitcoin and and UAPs and
AI like these are fully at the center of
what's going to drive major strategic
dynamics over the next few years. I'm
here with Matthew Pines who is the
executive director at Bitcoin Policy
Institute. I think if I were to
handcraft a podcast guest, [laughter]
you would be it. uh you just are always
such a deep wellspring of knowledge uh
across many many domains and so I'm very
very excited to have you here as things
get very weird in 2025.
Yes sir. Thanks for having me.
[laughter]
Absolutely. So I mean there are a
million ways to or places to start. Um
maybe you know the one thing I was sort
of kicking myself for not talking to you
about after our last podcast was
Bitcoin. Um and now you're at the
Bitcoin Policy Institute. So where do
you think we go from here? There are
chatters of a strategic reserve. You
know, obviously Trump has, you know,
made promises on this front. He, you
know, was was in Nashville at the
Bitcoin conference uh uh uh earlier this
or last year rather. And um yeah, where
where do we go from here? I guess I'll
step back and maybe to bridge maybe most
of your audience, right? uh from the UAP
community to uh the Bitcoin side of
things is some like ironic and and maybe
not so um ironic similarities between
you know the evolution of Bitcoin as
like a sociological phenomenon and how
it sort of you know played a role in our
in our politics and our and our sort of
and the zeitgeist is a symptom of maybe
what are these other dynamics taking
place right in our in our society and
and then the similar sort of evolution
of of UAPs like they were both on sort
of the sort of fringes of what's
considered acceptable um considered
taboo in their respective domains like
if you're a financial adviser you know
five six years ago it was just anathema
to even talk about Bitcoin as a serious
investment opportunity right and the
folks that were attracted to it were
tend to be sort of heterodox thinkers
folks that didn't necessarily trust an
institutional authority were had a much
higher risk tolerance or had a much
higher degree of confidence in a
particular vision of the future right
and so the Bitcoin culture that got
started has this sort of um uh you know
sort of uh phenomenologies almost of
like a cult religion right it's got this
sort of founding uh figure that sort of
gifts this protocol to the true
believers who have sort of formed this
um astrological vision around it right
sort of hyper bitcoinization uh they
were sort of an outgroup they were kind
of you know not the normal sort of uh
folks that went through a traditional
sort of meritocratic professional track
for whatever reason in their background
they were attracted to this to this idea
of sort of an open monetary network. Uh
and so they they sort of went in and and
it formed this sort of uh unique uh
culture and it has Bitcoin podcast, it
has Bitcoin um conferences and
influencers and as you know as social
media has developed uh Bitcoin has
become this you know this own community,
right? And then as Bitcoin became more
and more of uh of an adopted asset as a
network grew, it [clears throat]
obviously grew in total market value.
And then it became much more of a
political force. And then politicians
started to get engaged and there started
to be like a regulatory conversation
that was triggered around Bitcoin and
you know the broader digital asset
space. And so that the the sort of the
Bitcoin like concept sort of went from
total fringe heterodox somewhat taboo
topic and has sort of been on this
trajectory towards you know inside the
Overton window and now you have
essentially president of United States
saying he wants America to be you know
the crypto capital of the world right so
that is a kind of remarkable evolution
for something to go through in a
relatively short period of time and I
think that there's some interesting
parallels
uh to that kind of trajectory for
Bitcoin and the UAP topic right I think
uh whatever underlying reasons For that
similarity we can explore but just as a
first level set of observations is you
know similar sort of fringe somewhat
taboo subject. People are attracted to
it via some idiosyncratic mix of their
personal experience and their you know
professional or psychological um sort of
you know focuses and it has its own
insular sort of canonical lore and and
influencers and podcasts and conferences
and it has also undergone this evolution
right from since 2017 where it was
completely somewhat fringe and kind of
this um this outgroup culture and then
had gone through this period of you know
gradual um semi-official
legitimization, right? So, starting with
the New York Times articles and then
progressive uh engagement, you know,
correlated to direct sort of legislative
engagement and acknowledgement as well.
Um, and it just so happens like one of
the the course sort of senators uh
involved in on the pro- crypto
legislation, uh, Senator Gillibrand is
also the same senator who's been
involved in some of the initial uh, sort
of UAP legislation, the Gillibbran
Lummus bill on the crypto side and the
Jillen Rubio amendments on the other
side. uh and they happened around the
same sort of time period and and now
we're at this particular moment in time,
right, heading into, you know, the first
few weeks of the Trump administration
where both Bitcoin as a policy issue is
pretty highly salient and a and a topic
of of contention and focus at the senior
most levels of the administration. At
the same time, UAPs are also like
increasingly a subject of White House
level, cabinet level like discourse and
um and speculation, right? The
speculation in the Bitcoin community is
like how serious and how pro- Bitcoin is
the White House really going to be who's
who's really going to, you know, what
sort of executive orders are going to be
passed? What sorts of pro Bitcoin
policies are going to be uh put be put
forward? The same sorts of questions are
happening on the UAP side. How serious
is the administration about disclosure?
What sort of pro-UAP, you know, cabinet
secretaries are going to be confirmed?
And how forceful are they going to be in
executing on that pro UAP policy
position? Very similar, right?
we've got potentially pro Bitcoin
cabinet secretaries and the question is
like how pro Bitcoin are are they really
going to be? Um and in many ways often
they're very the same people, right?
Like um you have Tulsi Gabbard uh at DNI
who's apparently, you know, pretty pro
Bitcoin and and and also now I think in
her testimony was talking about sort of
UAPs explicitly in in her in her.
Do you think she'll get confirmed?
I don't know. I'm not an expert in
handicapping the Senate. Um I don't
know. Uh 5050. I mean, it'll probably be
decided, but by the time this is like
aired, so whatever prediction I make
will look
I think she's like I think she's like
slightly above 50% in poly market or
whatever. So
yeah. And I think I haven't seen most of
her full testimony or what the reactions
were. So I can't necessarily judge
because it depends on how how the
senators um you know perceived her
testimony and and what the media
reaction is. Um but yeah, but just
stepping back like so I just find a
remarkable sort of fact about our our
political economy and our and our sort
of the sociological process underway
that these two sort of outgroup somewhat
fringe topics UAPs and Bitcoin also just
my personal preoccupation for the past
five six years like thinking
intellectually about these things in a
very serious way but you know and for me
professionally these things started out
on like the side just things I was
interested in I just happen to be really
sort of obsessed with these two topics
like not for any particular particular
reason or like why they were related to
each other just that's just sort of how
my my intellectual interests sort of
evolved
and then they've both kind of been
embarking on this process you know the
last four or five years of coming kind
of coming into the Overton window and
now becoming subject of very serious
sort of policy um uh uh you know sort of
deliberation and decision now at the
highest level um of the US government
and so so that's just like the way I
would start is just like these are you
seem like these disconnected um
phenomena. There must be some underlying
reason. I don't know we could dig into
specul speculation about why the why
these two things are all happening at
once. Um at the same time you also have
AI I think also undergoing the similar
evolution you look at right the blog
posts about you know artificial super
intelligence the sort of less wrong
hyperrationalist effective altruist
movement was there were kind of fringe
inroup you know internet conversations
totally that had their own canonical
debates and lore and you know little
interneting you know factions etc. Same
thing with Bitcoin. You had sort of fa
factions split off about the, you know,
the core vision about what Bitcoin is.
You have factions in the UAP community,
right? All these sorts of things develop
these same dynamics. And then the AI
question has gone from those blog posts
to now like again strategic level
conversation, you know, stock market
swings 10% in a day because one Chinese
lab, you know, releases an AI model,
right? This is where we are now. And I
think Bitcoin and UAPs and AI like these
are now fully at the center of of of
what's going to drive major strategic
dynamics over the next few years. So
it's it's one of those things where if
you
um want to try to read the future and I
you know have been obsessed with trying
to understand what's really going to
what's really going on and what's likely
to happen in the future.
Yep. And you kind of have to pay
attention to these things coming from
the tails, these like little bubbles of
of of phenomenon, whether it's this idea
of AI, this prospect of Bitcoin
monetizing, this the prospect that UAPs
are not a total fiction.
It's like the what if AI turns out to be
a real thing at scale? What if Bitcoin
monetizes significantly? What if UAPs
are real? Like each of those things
individually has massive strategic
implications and they all happen to be
you know leaning towards the yes right
of that what if at the same time and
that's what I think is a strategic
change that a lot of people that are
maybe embedded in a set of mental models
that they anchored 5 10 15 years ago
are just not well um positioned to to
keep track of and then to anticipate the
changes that might be coming in the next
few years.
Yeah. It's almost like if the total
energy of the system equals potential
energy plus kinetic energy. All of those
things have huge potential energy
buildups and it's just yeah it's unclear
how exactly it it pans out or you know
not to mix anal physics analogies but
how the wave function collapses or
whatever but but there's uh sort of you
know uh a lot of possibilities w with
these things and it's almost like you
know the history of the last 50 or so
years has been the history of successive
bubbles and like like in the 70s you
could say like real growth really
started to to blow 80s and 90s was kind
of like, you know, financial
deregulation bubble. Um, you know, early
2000s you had the real estate bubble.
Uh, you know, globalization bubble or
whatever with NAFTA, you know, maybe in
between those two. Um, and then and then
in O8 was this big watershed moment. And
then 09 Bitcoin, you know, you read
Satoshi's white paper and it's this like
they're sort of gambling with our with
our, you know, our sovereignty. you
know, Satoshi seems like this very kind
of, you know, anti- uh Wall Street,
anti, you know, big finance, you know,
and you had Occupy Wall Street at that
time as well. And so, this is this is a
weird a weird way to put it, but it's
almost like the the the last bubble is
always the money bubble.
And so, like, Bitcoin is an arbitrage
against the money bubble. And maybe the
the the the real last bubble is like the
reality bubble. And like UFOs are
somehow like, you know, like uh uh uh
that's bursting. And that's why UFOs are
just, you know, this they're not, you
know, some deeper ontology, but they're
like the first thing to like peek its
head out, you know, once the reality
bubble starts to sort of dissolve.
Yeah. I mean, it's fascinating because
my my first sort of hot take reaction to
that is thinking about again money is
just a concept and it's an embedded
concept that's reified in human
institutions at a certain scale, right?
We have money like things at all scales
of human institutions like social
organizations. Like if you don't have
human institutions, you don't have
money. You just have you know people
living you know hand-to-mouth and
scraping out subsistence existence. As
soon as you get to some basic level of
human social organization, you get
something like moneyiness as an
institutional concept that gets
instantiated and reified in different
you know technologies right the
technologies that can that can
instantiate that concept of money
whether it's sea shells or yapstones or
or or gold or gold certificates you know
ledger balances at international
institutions like you know everything
from special drawing rights at the IMF
uh to then Bitcoin which is a sort of
again like a instantiation of this you
know age-old human concept of moneyiness
but taking advantage of the ambient
technologies that are now available to a
digital society. And so this is just the
process of evolution of human societies
adapting different you know basic um
sociological sort of uh sort of
primitives but now the possibility space
of what they can do uh expands as their
technological capabilities change.
So now you can realistically maintain
something like a consensus distributed
ledger around the world. Right? It
wasn't possible until you had the basic
technologies of the internet and and and
and um public private key uh you know
cryptography. Um, and so this is these
were the basic primitives that Satoshi
put together and he published in the
sort of the the you know 2009 as an open
source
and that's that's a that's a bit we
should drive this home because whenever
I speak to kind of boomer financial
people or whatever they act like that's
not a big deal like what what is it the
Byzantine general problem or whatever
like the double spending thing that's
not a big deal it's a huge deal like the
idea that you uh can create digital
scarcity and then you There are all
sorts of possible derivatives from the
digital scarcity, but just the the
digital scarcity itself, which Bitcoin
is the kind of archetypal example of, is
sort of really important because
software is
doesn't usually operate like that. And
so that's like that's like really
interesting.
It's like the it was the first real
computer science breakthrough that
became a meme, right? And so people have
hard time trying to reconcile both the
mimemetic aspects of Bitcoin and the
hard technical scientific breakthrough
that it embodied, right? Well, they also
have trouble swallowing the fact that
like our other financial instit
institutions are [clears throat] at all
mimedic themselves and that you upend
the old mimisis with some new mimisis.
Well, this is where we get often you get
into these interesting debates that turn
into philosophical questions of like
like what are human institutions? What
are these human concepts? Like how real
is the state as a concept? How real is
the promise of a state to pay back its
debts a thing which is essentially what
money is in our system? And it's like
these are sociotechnical systems. Not to
you get too like jargony, but like in a
sense all money is an inter is an
interface between human belief and the
physical world, right? Which is what
intermediates the actions that human
beings take as a result of their
beliefs. And so that's just what humans
are what we do. There's been
philosophical debates about how much
reality you assign to like these
different concepts like money. Is it a
thing? Is it just a social fiction? If
it's all just a matter of mutual belief,
then can we all just decide to believe
something different? And but again, it's
in interface between human belief and
reality. You can't just believe
anything, right? Reality imposes, you
know, exogenous constraints on what that
belief can do in the world.
Does doesn't it all just kind of come
down to um you know, who has a monopoly
on sacred violence? Who who can who can
perform sacred violence? And the
government is that at the limit. And so,
you [laughter] know, it's like it all
ultimates like sort of taxation is like
a version of that. If you don't pay your
taxes, you end up [clears throat] in
jail or something.
I mean, you can go to like yeah, the
sort of the Max Vber kind of
deconstruction view of the state or um I
mean, that's getting deep into political
philosophy. Yeah, I don't think it's
interesting to have like a particular
strong view of like, you know, that
build up this tower of institutions that
that that anchor um these webs of of
mutual fictions that we call, you know,
these collective beliefs like the state,
the constitution, the social contract.
These are all higher level um kind of
shared fictions. Yeah. That we all agree
and there's a sense of mutual consensus
belief that we will all continue to keep
believing them, right? states break down
when that that that embedded uh
assumption that everyone will continue
to basically believe the same thing
tomorrow about those you know shared
fictions um breaks down right when you
don't actually trust that's what trust
essentially is at scale right
can Bitcoin serve as a hed because I
think about the last like five years and
this idea of like modern monetary theory
like as long as your debt is denominated
in your own currency you can sort of
like print it away
and like once we start to talk in those
terms terms it feels like that's sort of
the beginning of the end or something
like that doesn't feel good. And so is
Bitcoin like
is it you know this fully decentralized
thing or you know presumably Trump
wouldn't get behind it if it was and is
it actually like a hedge you know as far
as like ensuring you know uh uh uh uh
solveny from you know United States
perspective on a go forward basis. Well,
again, those are trillion dollar conver
uh sort of questions. I don't have a,
you know, high confident answer to how
it's really going to shake out, but I
think it's important to think about
Bitcoin as an emerging
institution, right? That is a novel type
of institution that we haven't really
seen before, right? It's a global
decentralized um open, meaning there's
no gatekeeper to access, you know, your
your ability to to transact or or hold
it. um doesn't require a third party to
sort of validate your transactions to uh
to secure your your rights in the
network. You can essentially do that
with essentially math and open source
software. So this is a kind of um you
know novel technology that can form as a
predicate for an emerging institution
that [clears throat] started off fully
peer-to-peer again kind of crypto
anarchist internet forms, dark web
markets, you know, forward-thinking
investors, etc. and is now
[clears throat] engaging at the level of
nation states. And so we're seeing this,
you know, quite dramatic and for me just
fascinating interplay between these
existing state institutional structures
and and superstate institutional
structures, say like the ECB or the bank
of international settlements and the
sort of international norms between
central banks as well as major pools of
international capital which are you know
these are institutions themselves right
and they they formed as a result of
decades sort of evolution
[clears throat] right within a certain
global context especially in the
post-war era especially in say the post
1990s um kind of neoliberal sort of
capitalist uh sort of US sort of
dominated global system and then in
comes Bitcoin as this kind of thing from
left field that is now you know as again
it's sort of emerging to first order
just as an asset that like those
existing institutions can buy right so
black rockck has their ETF and they're
now pitching it to their to their to
their clients and saying to soy wealth
funds it's prudent for any institution
to hold between two and 5% right so they
just view it as it's an asset you can
hold it it provides diversification
ation benefits because it's volatility
it's you know correlation is is adds
overall kind of say um uh like improves
the sharp ratio of the of of the median
portfolio. So they're thinking that from
a purely investment asset it's like
there's it's a novel asset. It's now
gone through this hypers speculative
phase. It's now in its
institutionalization phase. Therefore
it's a safe thing to sort of prudently
diversify into as part of a you know a
portfolio uh sort of allocation
decision. But that belies like what's
really happening underneath the surface
which is okay you have this weird it's
not just an asset it's this network and
[clears throat] it's a network that no
one really controls right that's the
that's the secret right there really
isn't some there's you can't just go to
the Bitcoin CEO and get him in a room
and say like do something different
right it's [laughter] like there's
nobody to bring in there's no there's no
throat to choke right you can get the
head of Coinbase you can get the head of
of uh of [clears throat] Black Rockck
you can get the head of you know any
company and you can bring them into a
room and be like we want you to do
something different there's literally
nobody to go to
is is is the one um sort of devil's
advocate argument there is like the
identity of Satoshi
but even there it's like he can't do
anything to change the network I mean he
has a certain cult of personality
so you think it's a he
I mean [laughter] I think people
recognize it in his correspondence is
most likely male um I think that's
pretty accepted
do you have any theories
oh man the whole so who is Satoshi
question to me is kind of bal um I don't
I mean I find it fascinating.
I mean, it is fascinating again as a
historical question. I think though it's
really, you know, I think it's dead to
be honest. Whoever it is,
it's best for people who are pro Bitcoin
to say [laughter]
I mean it's you can go back to like the
early history of Bitcoin like Bitcoin
didn't come out of nowhere, right? In
fact, Satoshi even cites, you know, like
like David Chow and and we die
um
Nick Zabo
and Nick Zabo. Uh and so you know he's
he was taking different pieces that had
already been put in place and trying to
stitch together this you know it solved
this unique problem right the double
spend problem um and uh took the proof
of work uh sort of concept as well and
so added in difficulty adjustment so it
was this kind of malange of things that
no one had put together in the just the
right way um and yeah I mean the most
relevant there's like two main things
that would be relevant if Satoshi was
still alive and could like intervene
sort of DS DSX Machina right into the
present day context is One is just his
his actual holdings are enormous, right?
Over a million
Yep.
Bitcoin. So just
his decision to move coins or spend
coins would have a massive market
impact, right? Um and then the question
is if he would try to insert himself in
Bitcoin development conversations, he
would obviously immediately become, you
know, like first among equals, right? If
not the dominant force in terms of
debating on any future changes to the
protocol. And that would would be that
would turn Bitcoin's development
ecosystem potentially more like how
Ethereum has evolved. You still have the
talic who's the charismatic singular
founder personality who's very active
and makes his opinions known and the
rest of the community defers to his
opinions. In fact, there was this recent
shakeup, right, with the Ethereum
Foundation and a kind of, you know,
acrimony between developers and debates
about this very complicated development
um roadmap that they've laid out. And
that's that would introduce new risk,
right? Like the basic um risk profile of
Bitcoin as an open source uh uh sort of
software project essentially that
operates on this sort of rough consensus
mechanism is it's very hard to change.
It's very resistant to change. it takes
enormous amounts of time and broad
consensus to make even relatively
trivial changes to to to the protocol
because it's functioning essentially as
as digital gold, right? It just doesn't
change. And so um that that is a that's
that's you know this debate that
actually is really interesting um within
Bitcoin is a sort of oidication debate,
right? There are some folks that think
Bitcoin should really just never change
like at all. Like literally no tweaks
like anything you change is a risk. And
there's some people who think well there
are some long-term things about the
nature of the protocol these like little
additional features that would really
unlock a whole bunch of additional
capability for say time lock sort of um
you know sort of sort of very
constrained smart contracts right
Ethereum is kind of a more turnmplete
language uh and so there's some issues
with that but it it gives a much more
open expressivity to what you can do on
on on the blockchain whereas Bitcoin is
very much a very uh discreet
if it's trying to be a gold analog I
don't know if you need to do much more
than you know what what what what you've
already done. I mean there are a few
design I mean the design was pretty
pretty perfect but like there are some
flaws you could point at like the you
know I don't think he anticipated A6
chips for example or like you know like
extreme concentration in the chain
itself you know
I mean it's held up well I mean from
when he was mining on a laptop to when
now you have like you know massively
capable special purpose you know
integrated circuits that have been
designed just to run that algorithm. Um,
and the difficulty adjustment is the
true genius, right? Because it doesn't
matter how much energy you throw at it
in two weeks, it's going to
automatically adjust. Take into account
any breakthrough in in in in the hashing
technology. Uh, and so that is, but the
interesting thing about Satoshi is that
if he if he was still around and he
decided to say, "Hey guys, like I was
just chilling out, but now I'm back and
I've got all these great ideas about how
to improve Bitcoin." Right? That's been
the story of Bitcoin for a while now,
especially in those first few years
where it was like, "Oh, Bitcoin's great,
but like, you know, it's too slow. the
block block size is too small. I want to
add these additional features and I'm
going to fork it yada yada yada. There's
always like Roger Val all these
additional the block size wars were all
about this
Bitcoin Cash is the true Bitcoin.
[laughter] And so that was part of the
whole risk of Bitcoin in the very early
stages as you know like which which
Bitcoin would win right and it's been
this you know process of historical
accretion over and consensus over time a
kind of this sort of like a physics
process of kind of um uh sort of
condensation where it's like you have
something that's really hot right and
it's floating between many different
states and it's cooling down right it's
like a phase transition and then it
starts to lock in
right and we haven't I would say we
haven't fully locked in there's like
still pockets of you know where the the
the lat like the crystal lattice is
still somewhat funible, right? I mean,
there's like, you know, small little
bips that could be added here to add
additional features, but it's clearly in
this process of kind of cooling down,
right? It's like the big bang, right?
the big bang early on, hyper, you know,
you know, plasmas and maybe even the
like the forces themselves are like all
unified in this big soup and the
boundary constraints of the universe
were pretty wide and as it cools down
like you know gravity splits off and
then electroeak force and then it's like
you get the phase transitions down then
it you know becomes um transparent to
light you know 300,000 years and then
boom you've got basically most of the
degrees of freedom are now kind of
locked in for the universe and then the
rest of the story of the universe can
play out. So I feel like bitcoin is it's
like there was the big bang of the bit
of bitcoins like a launch and then there
was this process of kind of cooling and
condensation that took place and you
know was uncertain at that point exactly
you know whether the block size wars
would turn out in one direction or the
other whether Satoshi would really be
gone with you know any given year the
probability would go down but it was
like pretty high early on
like is he going to unmask himself is he
actually going to just say hey got you
I'm the CIA guys or something and every
year that goes by it's like this process
of cooling thing and and accretion and
that has yeah as that happens it sort of
it takes the risk off the table and then
you know as that occurs if you take the
risk off then its value goes up as it
val as it value goes up its volatility
generally will come down because it
doesn't take a whole lot takes
marginally less new capital to change
the price the volatility comes down
the risk tolerance of the next marginal
buyer right is now triggered and so then
the value goes back up and that's
basically been the process we've been
going through to the point where you've
got black rockck now essentially you
know shilling it to to their clients,
right, and talking wealth funds. So,
this is this fascinating process, but
unless you're really paying attention to
it closely along that path, all that you
really see it is like when it hits the
media narrative and it's and its
characteristic sort of hype cycles. So,
you see it, you know, going through
these 2013 bubble, 2017 bubble, right?
2021, 2022 bubble, right? And maybe now
we're in another bubble cycle, right?
These are these characteristic sort of
four-year cycles that we've seen
Bitcoin go through. So the person who's
just observing that kind of passively
through whatever media filters there's
like an activation function that it's
now Bitcoin pops up on their feed or
whatever. It's like oh it's a it's a
it's in the it's another bubble thing,
right? And it just keeps coming back an
order of magnitude bigger. [laughter]
It's like you know some people early on
saw this as like a trend and they picked
up on it and they've been handsomely
rewarded for seeing this trend. Others
catch on later. Um but like it's it's
clear there's a structural uh dynamic
playing taking place here. Uh which I
think is now like impossible and really
sort of a matter of strategic
malpractice if you ignore it.
Like there are presidents and national
leaders and chiks and kings having
active discussions now about what should
they do about Bitcoin? Like how should
they approach Bitcoin? Like that is that
is just a fact of our geopolitical and a
monetary state of affairs. Um, and so
you could just be like, "Oh, that's
absurd. This is another bubble." Okay.
But it's like sort of like the UAP
question, right? Some people see the
little see the the trends, you know,
pick up on these data points sort of off
the curve and they're they're naturally
inclined to pay attention to that and
they're they suspect something is
happening that's not just total noise or
a complete, you know, fiction. And so
they pay attention to it and then new
data points come in and that start to
stitch together what seems to be a
trend.
Yep. and you try to interpret what's
really what does that really mean? Is
this a trend going towards disclosure?
Is it Bitcoin trend going towards, you
know, nation state adoption? But it's,
you know, when you're early on and you
only have a few data points, it's like
an absurd extrapolation to to
confidently predict an outcome. But more
and more data points are essentially
aligning onto that trend line.
And that's going back to the very start
of the conversation. That's the thing
that I've been intellectually very
fascinated about is just paying
attention to those initial data points
sort of off the curve. You know,
speculating on what trend that might
represent and then paying ever more and
more attention as more data points start
to come in that confirm the trend.
And it seems like both in terms of
Bitcoin going on this sort of global
adoption now becoming a geopolitical
asset
trend and then UAP turning into like
this is a real thing and like now we may
be facing a much more salient public
discourse on the reality of UAPs and not
human intelligence. Those are just
things. Do you ever notice that the best
gifts in life are the ones that you
don't just receive, but the ones that
fit seamlessly in your day and make them
better? Whether you're enjoying the
latest American Alchemy content on the
move, or just tuning out the world for a
moment, Raycon's Everyday Earbuds are
the perfect pair. I've been using mine
nonstop. Whether I'm editing, making
calls, out for a walk, they've become my
go-to. The 32-hour battery life means I
never have to worry about scrambling for
a charger. And with multi-point
connectivity, I can switch effortlessly
between my laptop and phone. No more
reconnecting every time I change
devices. But here's what really makes
them a gamecher. Active noise
cancellation. Whether I'm working in a
noisy cafe or trying to focus, these
earbuds let me zone in on what matters.
And they do so in a way that's honestly
better than any other earbuds I've used.
I've also been loving these cool
protective case covers. Check out this
design. It complements the earbuds
colors perfectly. It's cool that Raycon
offers different designs so you're not
stuck with something generic. You can
actually pick a look that matches your
style. Not only do these look great, but
the new quick charge feature gives me 90
minutes of battery in just 10 minutes of
charge. That's huge when I'm in a rush.
And they also support wireless charging,
so I never have to take the case off
when charging. And listen, Raycon gives
you premium sound at half the price of
other top brands. If you haven't tried
them yet, now is the time. So go to
byracon.com/jesse
michaels. Again, that's by
bracon.com/jessem
i ls to get up to 20% off sitewide.
That's 20% off everything on Raycon's
website. That's right. You'll get up to
20% off everything on Raycon's website,
including 20% off of all headphones,
too, when you go to buyracon.com/jesse.
Click the link in the description or go
to byracon.com/jesseminichels
now. Well, where good segue. Where do
you think that goes? Today I'm releasing
an episode with Jake Barber, who's this
firsthand UFO crash retrieval witness is
probably not even doing him justice.
He's an operator. But the one that, you
know, he describes is is well, he
describes two. One is an eggshaped UFO
and the other is an eightgon like kind
of like an not quite an octagon but like
like eight eight sides on the surface
and it's sort of you know this black
metallic thing. What do you think of his
testimony?
I thought that was a remarkable. Again,
we've been kind of on this ratchet where
like every few months something
something new clicks, right? And it's an
it's an it takes the overall
conversation again people that are
paying attention to every little data
point here on the on this curve. I think
there are some people that were you know
again this is where the debates come in
like what sort of disclosure are we
going to get and also like what is the
curve that you think is like behind
these data points. Is it the non-human
intelligencees alien civilizations and
some advanced spacecraft coming here to
you know monitor us curve? Is it time
travelers? Is it cryptoaterrestrials? Is
it interdimensionals?
Do you have a leading theory? I mean, I
know you have your like, you know, uh,
wolf rim physics stuff, but like do you
have like a a theory ontologically? Is
cuz this is really interesting like what
is disclosure? I think for a lot of
people it's like we just need high
resolution footage and then you see the
footage and you're like I don't know
what I'm looking at. And so it's this
thing where it's like you don't really
want the thing you're asking for. You
want like a broader worldview. You want
to like understand the ontology behind
the thing. And I think there are a
couple other details associated with the
Jake story that are worthy of
mentioning. One is he locked so he
retrieved this agon craft and it like
via his helicopter and it was hanging by
a rope and he locked on to it with his
consciousness and it like gave him this
interesting feel this like divine
feminine sort of feel and it made him
emotional. And then the other thing that
he says is that they use psionic assets
in the government
to basically uh you know and we should
probably change the wording here maybe
you know whoever is doing this should
change the wording but summon
these UFOs into people's sort of field
of consciousness and then and then
presumably these things at some point
land and material might be used or
something. The whole thing is so
strange.
Yeah. And this is where ironically like
the Bitcoin thing is like trivially easy
to model by comparison because like the
stipulated phenomenon that you're trying
to model and understand is just the
adoption of this asset like essentially
a collective belief that this is a real
thing that other people will continue to
believe it's a real thing and that you
know different layers of PB institutions
wealth funds institution pools of
capital governments national leaders etc
will just continue to basically believe
that same thing over the like into the
future. So it's not like a you have to
construct a whole bunch of crazy sort of
second and third order sort of
underlying hypotheses for what's going
on. It's sort of just out there in your
face and you're just making a prediction
about that continuation of that trend.
With the UAP thing, it's vastly more
complicated and vastly more fraught
because just to that point and back to
my point about like what sorts of like
when you're trying to interpret these
different data points if you're, you
know, assuming you don't know the truth,
which is almost everybody here, maybe
even everybody like you don't really
know what's going on. All you see is
what people are saying, right? And you
have assigned degrees of credence to
these different statements that are
coming from apparently credible people.
And I think he's extremely credible. I
think he's got the professional
bonafites. He is who he says he is. I
think he's being entirely truthful in
describing his experiences as sort of
essentially a delivery man in his crash
retrieval program. Um, and you got but
then you've got to cons but that doesn't
answer really the object level question
of what's going on. Yeah. Right. It just
gives you a data point that you need to
stitch together into a comprehensive
model that you need to put together with
all these other sort of highly fraught
and inherently uncertain pieces of
information. And so this is where this
is what it gets extremely difficult for
for almost everybody to to construct
such a model because you have uh these
two main questions here which are the
most foundational questions of human
existence which is like are we alone and
like what is consciousness right like
separately enormous like unknown
questions that are like almost at the
core of who it is to be human like what
it is to be human who we are like what
is our history what is the nature of
intelligence in the in the universe are
we unique are we special is there a
great filter all these sorts of
questions. To answer that question, you
have to, you know, put together a lot of
disciplines of existing science and
speculative sort of, you know, frontiers
of physics to understand well, what's
the structure of reality, right? Is
there a multiverse? Is there just this
unfolding of time? You know, what are
the boundary constraints of physical
reality that any intelligence is going
to have to be, you know, is going to be
constrained by? And then the specific
kind of contingent processes that give
rise to intelligent life. How how common
are those given the population of stars
etc etc.
How can we ever get high conviction in
any given model? Like you know your idea
that there's like branchial space that
these UFOs might be able to hop across
or whatever and we're in you know sort
of this more constrained reallyial space
like how how is that at all?
I mean that's the process of science,
right? Um
but how does it become falsifiable? Like
e even you know and by the way I think I
think Jake's testimony is completely
beyond reproach as well as far as like
the the details. And I find him to be an
earnest good good person.
Um but like it was a question of like
you know yeah what are these things like
what when they're coming down what are
these things and is falsifying or
corroborating this even seeing an object
like is that even you know that like
what do what is that then? Yeah,
you know like you're probably going to
have no idea what it is. It's going to
be emitting some radiological stuff and
then you might get a little hurt and you
might have you know put it in a lab and
it might exhibit some weird properties
and then and then at that point what do
you do? What does that mean? I mean this
is where I mean I studied physics and
philosophy as an undergrad because I was
fascinated if not obsessed by this sort
of the boundary layer between science
and philosophy right which is
essentially philosophy is what we really
don't have systematized theories of
knowledge for right so the philosophy is
sort of scouting out in the forest just
trying to find the path right and then
you find the path and the scientists
come and sort of clear the path right
and so the frontier scientists are the
first ones into that like overbuilt
highly you know you get thorns
everywhere right but at least the
philosophers have sort of said yeah I
think there's a path here this is
basically the conceptual almost map of
definitions that we're going to analyze
these more foundational concepts almost
create new concepts, right? Philosophy
is often organizing human thought and
systems of concepts to just help even
ground hypotheses that then scientists
can generate and have to go out into the
world and refine as like real systems of
knowledge, right? So this process of you
know exploration into this dark dark
unknown that that humanity has found
itself in. And so this is this basic you
know uh challenge of reality is what it
is and we are just you know flesh
puppets with some with some uh with some
you know higher cognitive capacities and
this like being itself what it's like to
you know feel in sort of phenomenal
first-person subjective awareness that
sort of lights up the machine inside and
and it's like okay well we're clearly
like on first on a first principles
basis we've got to do a lot of work to
try to understand reality right it's not
going to just be handed to us we have to
do a huge amount of like conceptual
development and scientific exploration
to try to map on to reality, right? The
whatever models we have in our head to
try to create a map to to reality is
going to take an enormous amount of
work. And the challenge like the
confrontation that UAPs uh you know
present to us is they they force us to
try to basically almost short circuit
what would otherwise have been if they
didn't if they weren't here probably a
much longer process of like human
conceptual refinement and scientific
investigation to understand what's the
nature of reality like what are the
physical rules that constrain existence
and what is it like to be a human
subject or what's like to be a conscious
subject at all. And that's, you know,
that's what that the Barbara story kind
of really uncomfortably forces people to
put together, right? Because it's not
just this
alien or UAP or or NHI question of like
advanced technology from another
civilization, but it's that and
apparently this uh aspect of of human
consciousness that can directly engage
almost project interface merge with that
higher intelligence technology, right?
And so those are very separate domains
of sort of scientific and philosophical
um uh modeling and and and and sort of
inquiry which is like fundamental
physics, nature of intelligence, the
universe, the boundary constraints,
right? That we think any advanced
civilization is going to have to work
within that's going to constrain the
types of technology and propulsion
systems and metam materials they're
going to be able to construct. And then
there's well like what is consciousness
in reality, right? Is there is it a
universal field and we're just fragments
or shards? Is there some sort of more,
you know, sort of pansychus
interpretation that you would give? Um,
and what's the sort of psychophysical
relationship between consciousness and
the physical world that could be, you
know, intermediated with advanced forms
of technology, right? Um, and then
there's this question of like, well,
like is it just computational
functionalism is true if you just
instantiate a certain pattern? Is that
all you get? Is you just consciousness
or is it consciousness is actually the
substrate of reality? It's sort of what
stands underneath physics. M uh again
these are words that I'm spewing right
but like the words we think mean
something about reality but I think the
history of philosophy and science is
that the words we are using at any given
point in time are only like barely like
trying to map on reality it goes back to
Kant right it's like we have a certain
phenomenal description of reality that's
kind of first person subjective field
it's it has constraints it has to you
know uh conform with some uh rules of
rationality for Kant that you know these
are the rules that any rational mind
would have to obey. And so the universe
will then reflect itself in a regular
organized way to that person to that you
know subjectivity but that doesn't
actually imply that like reality what he
called nomina is actually that right
that feels so important for
understanding what science is and like
you mentioned Jonathan Gerard uh this
Princeton researcher that works with
Wolf Rammers kind of taking up the
mantle there and has all sorts of
interesting ideas that might actually
end up applying to UAP. Who knows?
That's sort of your your contribution.
Um, and I I heard him on an interview
with Kurt Jungle. Shout out to Kurt
Jungle. Great interviewer. And he was
talking about Newton and Libnets and
like how vector calculus kind of reigns
supreme as defining the way in which
we've conceptualized the world for, you
know, call it the last 400, you know,
years, 350 years, whatever. and uh that
on a go forward basis maybe a more
computational understanding of the world
will be how we kind of model the
universe and I would just say that I
think he's right but I would also say
that like all of these things are like
maps and they're not the territory and
so like you know yeah you you have these
sort of huristics for how you understand
the world and then maybe there is
something more fundamental about
consciousness itself and like it's going
to sound so cliche and trite, but like
the UAP stuff points to this like going
within, reconciling with, you know, the
ugliest parts of yourself, your
subconscious. You know, Carl Young would
say until you reconcile with your
subconscious, you call it fate. And like
you have these mystery rituals for, you
know, thousands of years where like the
top thinkers like like Plato, like all
you know, all these guys like went did
these mystery rituals. And and it seems
like it was to gain access to knowledge
of their primordial soul, noises. And so
it's like, you know, we can have these
mental models and like we can we can,
you know, draw stuff up on on on
chalkboards and then we can like, you
know, uh, falsify it in a lab or
whatever, but like maybe there's
something extremely fundamental about
like go going within and like I don't
know like that the Monroe like the
gateway stuff like like there are
different paths, but like
it's sort of Yeah, there's there's
something actually really important
about like you know um confronting
oneself in this sort of Joseph Campbell
style heroes this journey.
How do I slay?
How do you
slay that dragon in me? What's the
journey I have to make? You have to
make, each of us has to make. You talk
about something called the soul's high
adventure.
My general formula for my students is
follow your bliss. I mean, find where it
is and don't be afraid.
The lesson of most faith traditions in
general and even, you know, modern day
say newagy contemplative um transal
meditation etc. um they've all tried to
grapple with the the nature of like what
it is to be a human subject right and
the language the vocabulary the
conceptual frameworks have evolved it
was you know a certain structure in
terms of like the human soul you know
kind of this is the um embodied sort of
light of of god or whatever and then the
material world is this sort of you know
empty again kind of just uh stage of
sort of lifeless objects right and then
there's this um
a lot of people have this sort of folk
duality
metaphysics where what's in my head or
kind of consciousness is sort of this
unique substance that is you know
somehow more primitive and then there's
the physical world which is just sort of
lifeless stuff um I think it's a
primitive metaphysics I think there's a
you know to go to like a gardhead
uh sort of syncric view is you have this
dynamic computational process that's
unfolding in his way it's a
multimputational process that's
unfolding um and you can describe that
in a formal way a hyper precise way to
make you know predictions about, you
know, extensions in physics and that's
what physics and science is about. But
they have to give it a metaphysical
interpretation of that, you know, model,
right? And to account for phenomena that
aren't going to be um that aren't going
to be amenable to the same sort of
mathematized formalization that say a a
hyperraph rewriting system allows you to
do. And so there's a aspect of reality
that is what is it like to be a person
like a thing. We all have a first person
subjectivity um that seems very real to
us. And there's certain people like
Daniel Dennett and sort of Patricia
Churchland in that sort of school of
philosopher of mine that just deny the
reality of first person subjectivity
that qualia aren't aren't real, right?
It's all just it's all just words we
say. We don't actually have anything
that's like to be us or there's no such
thing as redness. Um
I think that's dangerous.
Yeah. But that is a very strong
philosophical view that has in and it
has it it's been very successful because
of a technological paradigm that seem to
you know seem to support it over time
which is you know this idea of just
programming right this idea of just
writing down abstract instructions on a
computer can unlock huge amounts of
complicated behavior and like you know
what looks to be now in these AI systems
like approaching human level you know
output right or sort of mimicry in some
sense um
and so that has from a certain naive
perspective Well, if we can construct,
you know, purely computational systems,
you know, just, you know, big weights of
numbers, right? Sort of doing matrix
multiplication, uh, and they can spit
out, you know, yeah, this is the touring
test. They can spit outputs that are
fundamentally indistinguishable from
human output. Well, then maybe maybe we
should just believe that that's all that
we are, right? And, you know, but of
course, at the end of the day, to get
this philosophy of mind argument, you
have to go back to like if I punch you,
it's going to hurt,
right? Like, that's not something I can
write down in any sort of system of
formal equations. there's just an
irreducible feature of existence that
only is uh accessible to a first person
uh you know subject that is real and you
know that's be like the first branch of
the tree that philosophers of mine
diverge in and then there's different
branches that people have taken over
time
but I think this is where I for me again
I come from this somewhat analytic
philosophical tradition and but at the
same time there's been a I think a
weakness in that tradition that's been
very um austere and it's obsessed with
hyperformalism and sort making these
very restrained and couched arguments
and then the rest of society just wants
to understand and gets like get to a
first level understanding of what's what
it's what's really happening in the
world. Yeah. So you have these other you
have these different traditions right
that are you know go under like sort of
new age philosophy that goes back to you
know kind of Hegel and Shelling and kind
of the the German romanticist um you
know have sort of been reinterpreted
over over many decades and give birth to
this sort of modern um sort of
metaphysics. It's very popular in the
UAP community, right, which is
consciousness and light beings and
meditative practices and um it's like
we're rediscovering a lot of like
ancient sort of knowledge, right? It's
just being reinterpreted through our
modern frames and belief systems.
But even then, it's like those ancient
belief systems were just those were just
the new age philosophies of the day.
Sure, right? Like I again I maybe I'll
just this is my training or disposition.
I like to have I want to try to take
that as a guide to then try to
systematize and formalize as much as I
can well what does that say about
reality right we're just using words
when we say you know consciousness or
light energy or look inside right those
are but like you need to stitch it
together in a cohesive um worldview that
is on the one hand scientifically
rigorous and formal and the one hand you
know philosophically speculative and
exploratory but you need to always have
to like try to pull pull those threads
together.
Well, it's always funny when people say,
you know, aliens are just angels and
demons, and then I ask them, what's an
angel and what's a demon? They have that
that descriptor is in no way helpful,
you know, more helpful incrementally you
compared to an alien or whatever.
[laughter] And so like you're you're
equally completely clueless in both
cases and you're just sort of like it's
almost more of like a political pmic
that you're trying to say, you know, it
all just goes back to a tradition. But
you're right, in many ways the tradition
is just as impenetrable as this newagy
veneer that you know we we we have or
whatever.
And I think fundamentally we need to
create new concepts, new worldviews that
are based in a scientific practice but
are uh not uh restricted by the
prevailing what I would call sort of
metaphysical assumptions. Right.
I I so I think that's right. And then I
also think l you know the concept of
Lindy
Yeah. you know, like, you know,
something's expected or something's
current age is a, you know, predictor of
its, you know, future age. And so, like,
it's every generation's, you know, job
to sort of kill off bad ideas. You know,
the ideas that are like not that good
don't don't survive that long. And so
like on some level I do understand kind
of um hearkening back to older
traditions and saying it is all just
like this stuff like you're not
discovering something new because it
actually does give you a at least fuller
metaphenomenological
like you know social map of like our
understanding of this stuff how we've
interacted with it and it doesn't you're
not throwing out any progress that's
made in the past as a result of you know
whatever interactions we've had with
UAPs or you know these things or
consciousness or whatever. So I do think
you know it's like Alabiades was like
was killed for like you know talking
about the the mysteries at Elus or
whatever and traditionally I think some
of these things that we're touching on
now in the UAP context you if you if you
attempt them in some sort of like
willy-nilly way like things go very bad
for you and so like
you know I think I think it's actually
kind of important to know that and to
not just like wholesale you know
democratize like Steven Greer who I this
was a total mixed bag. I think in many
ways he's being vindicated now actually
for his really good investigative work.
But he's of the mind that you can just
like sort of try to call these things in
and it's like I I don't know about that.
I don't think that's a good idea. But
what do you think?
Well, this is why I think a greater
crime
than the like alleged legacy program
technology secret science secret physics
crime is this what you could you could
some might interpret as a spiritual
crime. I would view it as more, you
know, essentially a philosophical crime
and people be like that's a trivial but
for me a philosophical crime is the
highest crime. It's like what is the
highest pursuit of humanity is to
understand reality.
And to do that you need to have
as much access to whatever clues reality
will provide to you to then stitch
together in an ever um evolving and and
uncertain basis like a picture of the
world, right? what is really happening
like what are the core phenomenon that I
need to uh account for right in a
coherent picture of of of existence and
if there's an entire set of phenomenon
that the US government or other entities
have just been you know uh intentionally
withholding um that would provide you
know ammunition for or or ingredients to
construct a much more uh integrative and
holistic view of reality then then we're
all impoverished fundamentally and
almost spiritually metaphysically in my
sort of more neutral language and that
is that's more for me of like a um an
abrogation of an insult right than like
withholding classified physics like
that's a problem but that's like that's
like a
it's it's a it's a it's a problem
underneath this larger problem right
it's um
because then I think that's what you
need to move you know overall human
civilization forward is you need to have
everyone operating on as close to a
basis of truth as possible y like
systematic you know error
compounds over time and leads to
pathologies and usually catastrophic
failures and like proper institutions
are always always about trying to get as
close to reality as possible, right?
Like ultimately if you want to have an
effective, you know, organization, a
company, a product, a belief system, it
should be like you should be trying to
get it close to reality. But is is is
not the biggest sigh up of all the idea
that the government has a greater
metaphysical or ontological
understanding of reality at all versus
these locally useful techniques where
they can like you know derive certain
benefits from interactions or whatever.
Like I think those are two very
different things.
Yeah. No, 100%. I don't think the
government has like a secret sort of
scroll of of of knowledge, right? That's
like we are the truth keepers and we're
holding the truth back from people. It's
more like they're they're withholding
basic basic facts, right, about like
apparently something like uh human
capacities for uh conscious engagements
with advanced technology is a thing
that's like a real phenomenon in the
world.
Do they have like a
fundamentally, you know, grounded
ontologically, you know, close to the
metal, you know, theory of physics and
metaphysics that accounts for all of
that? I'm highly skeptical. Right. I
think they're just like they got they
figured out some tricks and some
protocols. They realize that there's
certain individuals that have an
inherent predisposition for this. They
maybe have figured out genetic, you
know, lines that are just naturally
disposed for this. They figure out maybe
some cocktails of drugs to give to
people in a training regimen when
they're young and then they get them
into these programs and they, you know,
I basically adapted almost on a like
trial and error basis. Let's dive
[laughter] let's let's dive a little
into that because that that does also
seem to be coming out now and it's not
it's it's really strange and it's not
something you can like
really paint over it's hard to put
lipstick on that pig. That's a it's a
weird thing that the fact that the
government has been systematically
finding high sigh ability you know mind
over matter capable children across the
country for decades and basically doing
parasychological experiments with them
where it's like collapse a sine wave or
you know look at this material do you
react to the material and then like yeah
inducing certain stress states so they
can you know be more functional as far
as these out-of- body experiences and
trying to garner es esoteric information
from them. What do you make of all of
that? And do you think I mean how
prevalent was that? Is that how you know
is yeah how how big of a thing is that?
If you put a few things together and
you're trying to construct like a
scenario here it is interesting right?
So imagine for the sake of argument this
the psionics um capability is is real
right? Okay. Well, then you're going to
have to ask some basic questions like,
well, what's the effective range,
right, for a given psionic asset to
perform a certain operation, whether
it's to summon down, take control of,
pilot, engage, communicate, you know,
whatever. Like, it's, you know, it's,
you know, again, your assumptions there
could be everything from they can they
can read across the universe or they
have to be within line of sight within
like a kilometer or or somewhere in
between, right? So if you assume for the
sake of argument that there's some uh
there's some constraint right there's
some physical distance uh where the
operational effectiveness of the psionic
acid is is is constrained
then okay you have a global say you know
operation you need to have a global
footprint of those assets to perform
activities where you never you know who
knows maybe there's certain activities
that you need to have in certain parts
of the world to detect uh UAP like NHI
craft but if it's true that there's some
ability for humans to control this
technology. Well, then you also have to
build into this scenario, this
hypothetical that
um we haven't been able to like fully
reproduce like reproduction vehicles,
right, that are, you know, all these
crazy metamaterials or whatever. But if
we have our own say fully intact craft
and we know how special psychic pilots
can fly them well then you have to build
a scenario where there are non-human
craft being piloted by humans and then
you have to build in that scenario well
if American or contracted associated
American groups can do that well then
maybe adversary groups can do that and
so then if you're in this this scenario
where there are actual non-human craft
at you know whose maybe operational
locations you're trying to monitor or
you know you would just need to have a
presence around the world because you
don't really know what they're going
what's going on and or you have you know
human groups that are you know piloting
using psionic capabilities uh non-human
craft that they've recovered and then
start to operationalize and then then
it's like so there's this crazy exotic
scenario built in here but then it's
really not that different from a
traditional military ISR global sort of
you know competition right where you try
to get as close to your adversaries
operations as possible to monitor what
they're doing, right? With as much of a
deniable presence as possible. So, you
would use your covert special stuff to
do that. And you would get, you know,
near your adversary, China, etc. And
then if there's a disaster, you're like,
"Oh, we're worried about these assets
being burned or they're really valuable,
so we need to get them out." So, that's
that's the evacuation procedure, right?
And then it turns out these Marines
stumbled on the evacuation. That's okay.
How do I create a scenario that explains
a psionic asset team with a non-human
craft in Indonesia that's witnessed by
Michael Herrera, right? And a
primmaacially absurd thing. But if you
load in things from Jacob Barber's story
and a basic SOP about how any sort of
operation would be constructed, right,
that's based on those facts, okay, you
can you can come up with a plausible
explanation to that inherently
implausible scenario.
Well, it's funny. I said I was like, you
know, maybe it was this like human
trafficking psionic asset transfer
operation. He was like or maybe you know
the program was like running out there
and they were like trying to get out
because the earthquake had hit. So it's
kind of like what you said like they
were like you know evacuating and they
sort of ran into Herrera's unit.
I mean again just taking the facts issue
and trying to construct a plausible
story that's consistent with these other
pieces, right? If you don't put the
other pieces together it's very hard to
tell a plausible story. Y
um but yeah, but that that's the part
that's I think people are increasingly
hinting at. Uh right, you go you could
go back to GR and Carl subroa cold war
to retrieve or reverse engineer this
stuff. Well, the psionics part is a part
of that retrieval program and reverse
engineering program. Well, then there's
going to be a subroa cold war for
psionic assets around the world to
retrieve and reverse engineer and
control, you know, human intelligence.
That's just that's like the that's just
like a slight modification of the
original brush.
Yeah, totally statement.
Well, do do you have a base case on how
far we've come when it comes to actually
reverse engineering these things or
I am I'm I'm open to the possibility
that a lot of technology has been
inspired
that would be considered very advanced
uh from the say like what's in the open
domain
um different parts of the tech tree
advanced materials I think you know
would probably be the most likely
candidate. I also think the psionics
thing is certainly probably the most you
know most people wouldn't think about
that as reverse engineering but for me
it's like in clearly inspired technology
right like there's a certain way of of
activating engaging training enhancing
certain human capacities to perform
operational capabilities you know that
are military and intelligence you know
related like that's that would I don't
think we would have gotten that
potentially without these things um if
that's true uh which seems increasingly
likely to be the
Um, anti-gravity, the whole Thompson
Townson, you know, Brown stuff, uh, is
it's a tougher thing for me to to
stretch to at the moment. Um,
like could we have sort of inspired
prototypes like the like the PI stuff
that we have drawing board ideas on?
Probably. M um do we have the
engineering acumen and materials to
operationalize or even develop
prototypes for that like you know on our
own tech tree without you know grafting
something on from a non-human craft. I'm
skeptical of that because I think you
know even if we have a theoretical
foundation for say vacuum polarization
or this sort of um you know uh extended
electronamics you got these like this
this coupling with high like extremely
high magnetic field sort of frequency
variations and you're doing some crazy
topological insulators right with with
the sort of missile man stuff like
there's like I think we have hints of
where we can explore you know potential
next moves on propulsion materials
but I just think we're you have to build
a whole stack of technologies and stacks
of physics and engineering knowledge
that I just don't think we're anywhere
close. So even if we think we have like
the physics, the theoretical physics
worked out,
I just don't think we're close to having
like the engineering like materials
stack built up yet to to realize that.
But this is where I think there's an
interesting middle ground scenario which
seems to be lent more credence by what
the Skywatcher folks like Jordan in
particular was saying. Um if you take if
you take a story which you know I have
no evidence one way the other but I
think he's a credible person. Um but he
says explicitly it's like the psionic
activity isn't it's it's like a mind
meld with this conscious craft and
effectively there's like control modules
that you essentially take over.
Mhm. And it's like this sort of, you
know, this orb that's a conscious sort
of AI, you know, super super craft thing
that's just it's just waiting to be kind
of like, you know, not hijacked, but
kind of like, you know, if you're ready,
you can sort of, you know, take me for a
spin, right? Like, let's do a little
mind meld and then I'll show you how to
like zip around with your consciousness
here. And if that's, you know, again,
hard pill to swallow from a certain
scientific and metaphysical perspective,
but if you just take it at face value,
well, that would then make more likely a
scenario where, you know, we can control
non-human craft without having the
ability to make them, right? Which
almost would explain why the retrieval
program is so important, right? because
we actually have really no hope of truly
reverse engineering our own, you know,
super luminal, anti-gravity, whatever,
right? But, you know, the real
constraint is whoever gets the most of
them has the most of these things,
right? And so, it's like, you know, the
production rate of F-35s versus Chinese
hypersonic missiles is like a, you know,
it's like who's got the most the range.
It's always about par, right? And if
nobody really has the ability to
manufacture them, then the only
strategic uh you know measure is who's
be able to get the most train the mostic
assets and then operationalize as many
of these craft as possible.
Mhm.
Well, then that would put an intense
strategic pressure on these great powers
to do that, right? uh and would also I
think create an immense competitive
pressure within these state institutions
and their associated contractor
ecosystems because it's like this is
also would explain the whole weird parts
of the barber story where it's implies
there's like contractor teams and
mercenary you know you know like
retrieval units all kind of competing
over this stuff.
Yeah. in that sense like you know
Lockheed and Northrup or SACE or whoever
that you presume is involved in this
stuff uh neither of them has the real
competitive advantage on creating like
new units right like F-35s versus
whatever the only differentiator between
them is like who's got the most you know
who's got the most stuff
who's got the most assets and you know
both sonic assets as well as craft
and that's just that's a competitive you
know dynamic
that uh you could see these institutions
you Well, all of this is predicated on
the sort of Philip J. Corso narrative
that like you can derive any sort of
material benefit and when I say
material, I mean literally like
materials benefit that can work its way
into any sort of existing technology
stack. And so I guess that narrative
specifically which actually seems to be
getting sort of more and more
corroborated. You had again Jason Sans
going on Rogan and you know this could
be circular reporting, who knows? But
like he was talking about radars uh you
know high high powered radars uh at
Roswell and White Sands actually
disrupting the flight paths of the
crafts
when Rogan actually expressed skepticism
but it actually sort of makes sense from
like a physics standpoint that radar
might disrupt some you know exotic craft
like this and uh uh uh you know that the
stuff comes down and then you know gets
collected it gets taken to Rosco Hiller
who's the first director of the CIA and
then uh Philip J Corso who is the um you
know chief of the army's foreign
technology exploitation desk. He is
given the material and that material is
systematically doled out to the private
sector namely Bell Labs. And so he says
everything from Kevlar lasers to the
transistor uh you know um or maybe maybe
it's not just the transistor maybe it's
like some sort of thing essential to
integrated circuits and fiber optics
like all these things are derivative of
these materials from Roswell. Do you
believe that?
I mean it's hard like I haven't done the
the deep analysis of that but like as
far as my shallow understanding is
there's no major like gaps if you tried
to like retell the history of that tech
tree development from transistors to
fiber optics like it's there's no like
mysterious you know oh like all of a
sudden we now have this new thing that
like nobody has any idea where it came
from. there was like patterns of
individuals working in discrete research
units with like a tech antecedent that
then was modified with a certain
technical you know breakthrough that
then was merged and you get this you
know what seems like a characteristic
tech development tree
and isn't there a patent on transistors
from like Munich in the 1930s or
something
yeah I mean there was I mean a lot of
people since the beginning of
electricity and the knowledge of basic
circuitry and and um and related
equations was like okay it's just an
engineering question like can you do
this in a cost effective way and you
know to get the right materials and then
start building some of these devices. It
wasn't like oh we don't know how to make
a integrated circuit. In fiber optics
it's like oh this is crazy advance. It's
like okay you just need like
sufficiently transparent crystal glass
and you just need to like you know
protect it and then have a way to
generate you know a photon source that's
correlated to some analog circuit and
you can just generate generate signal
like like these weren't
like magical things. They had a they had
a characteristic anticcedent
and there's no mystery embedded. And I
think part of that whole Corso thing I
think is you know I don't know if it's
intentional but it seems like
disinformation. It seems like passage
material.
Do you think it was?
I don't know. I mean it's but it would
make sense if it's like you're you're
worried that this this idea of there
being non-human intelligence, you know,
technology unknown origin material out
there. uh you want to try to like throw
shaft at the Russians or whoever
who at that point and it seems like you
like they know that we know that they
know kind sort of thing that this is
going on and so you're not trying to
convince the Russians this isn't real.
You're just trying to obuscate to the
Russians maybe puff up your chest about
what you figured out right about this
stuff like oh yeah we figured out all
this stuff. Well, it's funny. He was
also Corso um on the psychological
strategy board under Eisenhower. So, it
was like all military psychological
operations were like going it was Gordon
Gray and it was this other guy Charles
Douglas Jackson and you know Philip
Corso and a lot of
the early alien lore comes from that
nexus of people which I find interesting
and I'm sure a lot of it was I mean
there's even a I believe a memo from
Walter B. Smith uh who I believe took
over the CIA in 52-53 and he's saying
you know how do we you know use the UFO
phenomena and I always find this
interesting because he doesn't say let's
make up the UFO phenomena he says you
know he's he's the whole memo is
predicated on the you know uh the the
the tacit acceptance of this actually
he's like writing about it in this sort
of benol way like of course there's a
UFO phenomena let's figure out how to
kind of operationalize it against the
the Soviets and so yeah do you think
that that's been done in the past.
Yes. I mean, I think the best cover
stories are based on a germ of truth.
Yes.
That you distort and you you mix in with
a bunch of,
you know, untruths. Um, and that's that
that's what makes it a good operation.
That's what makes it effective and
enduring counter intelligence operation.
Do you think Bob Lazar is an example of
that or like what's your what's your
belief on Bob Lazar? So Balazar for the
audience
claimed to have worked at S4 which was
uh you know a special compartment of
Area 51 and he was recruited there
because he I guess slapped like a a
ramjet on the back of a Honda or
something and then he met Edward Teller
serendipitously and he gets recruited to
this program and he claims that he was
working on you know uh a craft that
looked like Billy Meyers who's a Swiss
ufologist. Uh he would describe the
sports model. So this saucers shaped
craft and he describes certain
frameworks like gravity A and gravity B
as far as working on the craft and it's
with remarkable like level of detail and
lucidity that he's described all this
stuff and he came out in Rogan and sort
of talked about it but there's some
weird things in his history in past and
um I've actually become increasingly of
the mind that the
primmaaccia story is real
but then I don't know. Yeah. What do you
think? Do you think it was passage
material or Yeah. Yeah, I think it's the
same sort of thing which is there's
probably a germ of truth in what he's
saying and he was but I I think it's
very very hard maybe impossible to
really
carve out is it 10% of that 80% of that
like I don't think it's 0%. Yes.
Like I think now that I've had to sort
of update my prize very significantly to
the reality of these of these programs
and the reality of non-human
intelligence and these related
technologies then it seems somewhat
irrational to be like oh well the the
first guy to say that is just wrong.
Yeah. Right. Right. [laughter]
you kind of have to be rational and sort
of reset your your assessment, right?
And take all the kind of cruff and the
the personalities and the different
narratives that have been shaped over
decades and just kind of like go to
first principles be like, well, without
anything else, it does raise the
probability that he was telling the
truth, right? If like it turns out these
programs are real, like then you know it
raises the chance that he was involved
in some capacity, but it doesn't at all
endorse or force you to raise your
credences in all the other things he
said, right? which clearly have aspects
of embellishments and and kind of
changing changing changing sort of
details over time. But so you can get to
this nuanced picture which is you know
parts of his story are probably credible
and then parts are very not right. And I
think it's more of a historical story at
this point like I don't think it's much
more in the way of disclosure
information you're going to get out of
that episode.
Do you have a belief on what's true and
what's not or sort of anybody's guess or
on him or just in general? him. I mean,
oh, uh, I mean, I think it's likely that
he was involved in some parts of the
program, these like things, and maybe he
was. I think it's plausible he saw
craft.
Uhhuh.
But I mean, you look at all these other
stories, it's so compartmented, and the
people that are brought in are brought
in with a very particular reason. And it
seems clear that they're they're only
told what they need to know. And then a
lot of what they're told is likely
disinformation that's not directly
related to their to their function,
right? like you you would not tell just
every piece of the puzzle all the like
what the puzzle is, right? You you would
tell them how to draw the you know what
the borders are and then the rest of the
puzzle you' probably come up with a
total [__] and make me story for it,
right? Cuz they don't need to know,
right? But you need to tell them
something. So you say it's mouse and you
say it's gravity A, gravity B. You tell
them all this stuff. It's like okay like
but he's got a very narrow thing. He's
like more of a technician. He's just got
to lift certain things and go to certain
places and just, you know, there's
certain physical things that have to get
done, but he's not the grand genius
that's supposed to figure out the basic
physics here. He's just being told a
story. Um,
again, that's just like a hot take. Uh,
I I think what's interesting is in the
Jacob Barber story, it's like, yeah,
like he he knows what he saw. He knows
what he experienced, but he's delivery
guy. Y
So he can kind of tell you with a high
degree of fidel with a high degree of
fidelity like what was under the cone of
light from his helicopter. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
But like he can't tell you what was
happening under the bunkers. He can't
tell you what was happening in these
research institutes and this, you know,
sprawling disconnected compartmentalized
archipelago. Yeah.
Right. And so there's an elephant here
and each, you know, these individual,
you know, cases comes out. It's like,
oh, this is the toenail. This is the
tail. This is the this is the tusk. And
you're like, I think there's an elephant
here, but how big is it? Right? Is it
one elephant? Is there actually five and
they're touching different elephants?
Right? This is the part that's very hard
to discern. you've just got this like
soda straw of apparently vertical
experience mixed in with potentially
disinformation like who knows what the
corso stuff um
and this is the detective story. This is
why it's you know human beings we love
these sorts of pattern matching
especially certain cognitive phenotypes
where we love to just obsess like some
people like doing puzzles right and so
you're just like oh is this one puzzle
but it's like it turns out somebody was
screwing with you and just mixed in a
bunch of other puzzle pieces in there.
It's like well you're going to have
trouble. Uh, and that's what that's what
they think this is, right? Like somebody
just mixed a bunch of puzzle pieces from
different puzzles together. And you
know, some people will just be like,
"Oh, it's all there's no one puzzle
here. This is all just noise."
Yep.
Right. And then there's some people who
are just like, "Oh, wait a second. I
think this this is this is the one
puzzle I need to figure out, and I just
need to throw these other pieces away."
Yeah.
Right. And that's a lot of that's a lot
of work. And you never really there's no
guarantee of success because you don't
know what the ratio is. Like you can be
there all day. Uh, speaking of puzzle
pieces, you're one of the few people who
spent in-person time with this guy
Harold
Malmgrren.
And Harold uh was a top presidential
adviser for the four presidents for, you
know, uh, JFK, LBJ, Nixon, and Ford and
did various other amazing things just in
a kind of, you know, prosaic
governmental context. But he's also just
been dropping bombs on the internet
saying all sorts of really interesting
stuff around, you know, his
investigations of, you know, he says
that he he meets Lawrence P. Gis, who's,
you know, Jeff Bezos's maternal
grandfather by adoption, who runs, you
know, the Atomic Energy Commission's
Albuquerque branch, and, you know, he's
sort of briefed on, you know, UFOs and
that there was a UFO that came out of
this, you know, blue bluegill triple
prime test from the Marshall Islands
tests. And so, you know, you spent some
time with him. Did you learn anything
interesting by just just being around
him?
And did you find it Yeah. Did you find
it credible?
Oh, yes. I mean, that I can start with
for sure for like 100%. Like, yeah, he
he is like a living legend. He's
probably done more
for America than like anyone I've ever
met, right? Just in terms of just the
duration of service as well as just the
um
the level of impact, right? like holding
Curtis Slimy back from potentially
nuking during the Cuban missile crisis.
Like
it's a big deal.
Big deal. You know, not somebody and
he's not a guy who's gonna like humble
brag about that, right? He just did it
when he was like 27. It's just part of
his, you know, he's like he's a quiet
kind of uh civil servant sort of
technocrat um by nature.
So, he's never won to kind of pat
himself on the shoulder or kind of,
you know, be a braggadocio about his
achievements. Um and it was never title
obsessed. was never he probably could
have been multiple different cabinet
secretary type roles.
Um
and he was never you know about the ego.
So I think that's just
yeah I think there are people like that.
I'm not sure there's that many people
like that but like those are unique
special people and
it's a rare breed. Yeah
it's a rare breed and it's also why I
think
he was trusted by so many different you
know presidents and senior leaders over
you know many many years. Uh and it's
why when he says things, it's from a
position of like being in a uh a uh an
enduring role in enduring roles where
he's given a huge amount of trust by
multiple presidents and he's an enormous
cache, enormous reputation. like he
spent his life serving the national
security state um you know from the
early sort of cold war anti-bballistic
missile sort of defense planning all the
way to like international trade
negotiating you know trade treaties
being the sort of the back channel with
the Soviets and the Chinese and just you
know playing at the geopolitical level
at the highest at the highest uh the
highest level um and so he's got an
amazing reputation he was international
consultant like this guy could have just
you know could sail off into the sunset
never say a word about UAPs and you know
his name would be in the history books.
He's written books. He's yeah you know
his legacy would be um secured and the
fact that he's you know very insistent
on bringing his thoughts to the public
and his historical interactions with
these you know important figures in the
early cold war on the subject of UAPs
explicitly and non-human intelligence
and UFOs is a remarkable thing. Like
this guy has nothing to gain about
talking about this stuff. uh and he
could be enjoying, you know, retirement
and just chilling out, right? Um the
fact that he is um very focused on
trying to bring some of his knowledge
and his experiences to the public, I
think should should draw attention,
right? Should have people perk up and
and and take notice. Um yeah, and he has
these, you know, arresting uh you know,
anecdotes about talking with Yeah.
Lawrence Pis
who told him like of their efforts to
retrieve UFOs out at out at um you know
in uh you know around Los Alamos. Uh and
similar with Richard Bissell who told
him of their efforts to retrieve and
figure out other world technologies
and Richard Bissell was number two at
the CIA and helped form Area 51 and was
kind of like I think CIA liaison to
skunk works because they were doing a
lot of work together. So yeah, and then
you know Harold has been a trusted
confidant to multiple presidents. Um you
helped you know and I think there's an
interesting part of that cold war
history especially under Kennedy which
uh you know who knows we'll see what if
we get more information on those on
those uh Kennedy uh related records.
Yeah. Um, which interesting sidebar, I
found it noteworthy and people should go
back to the Joe Rogan interview with
Donald Trump where Joe Rogan is talking
to him about the Kennedy assassination
records and, you know, prompting him to
commit to whatever disclosures of those
records, etc. And then Trump leads the
transition of the conversation from like
Rogan talking about JFK records and how
many people are are interested in them
and then Rogan go and then Trump goes
many people are also interested in the
people coming from space. and he and he
looks up at the ceiling and then Rogan
who's like huh goes like you know you
know about that and Trump with a somber
look goes I know a lot about that ton
and then Rogan tries to prompt him and
you know Trump kind of I think realizes
he kind of said too much and then he
sort of pivots to talking about how Area
51's a tourist destination and the most
beautiful pilots come to him and talk
about seeing anomalous things
pilots with crew cuts
yeah crew cuts most beautiful most
handsome pilots got the greatest pilots
uh the greatest the greatest tourist you
know uh secret research projects in the
desert. Um
what do you think Trump knows? Well,
that was a fast. So, I think he he said
many people are interested in the people
coming from space and he looked up and
then he sort of I think he tried to walk
this back. He said, "I've never been a
believer." You know, he sort of tried to
dial it back. But that was an odd turn
of phrase for a president to use and
immediately after like without any like
you know apparent prompting by Rogan
like in his brain there's a bunch of
neurons that have JFK you know
associations and apparently those
neurons are like really close to his UFO
neurons and they just they just fired
and they sort of you know in his free
association the UFO subject is just
close you know in his cognitive matrix
to to to JFK. So that that if you're
trying like what does Trump know? Well,
that's telling me like what sorts of
concepts and memories are embedded in
his prefrontal cortex and his amydala
and whatever or his hippocampus
actually. Um, and it seems like through
his verbal utterances that JFK and UFOs
or specifically people coming from space
are connected in his mental
relationships.
Can you can you fathom as to what that
relationship might be in Trump's mind?
Well, that that is that is a really
interesting question and this is where I
know folks like um like Jeff Krookshank
have done a little bit have done like
the forensic historical kind of uh deep
dive look through the Kennedy archives
the the like the library um kind of you
know records the declassified JFK
records um which are you know obviously
historical vertical material and then
you have these much more contested
materials like the MJ12 documents
which you know are enormous and you know
highly disputed But you can find these
interesting correlations between say
calendar you know entries and diary
entries and there's some interesting
overlaps there. Jeff is obviously much
more attuned to those details, but they
overlap with this sort of period of time
where there's a lot of just immense and
we talked about this in the first uh
interview of just like that period is
there was a certain power structure in
place in the US, right? It was extreme
like you know go back to the Fukyama
institutional lot sort of like the these
guys were climbing to the peak of that
kind of institutional creation energy
power the Dulles brothers you know kind
of this this whole system right that
kind of won the World War II and then
created this post-war architecture
and then allegedly had access to these
advanced materials like at the sort of
that was their that was the core of this
kind of um potential strategic advantage
they wanted to they wanted to amplify
and they were they were a small group
right they weren't like and they thought
of themselves as like the the guardians
of American,
you know, strategic interests. Like
democracy was kind of a second order
concern for them, right? They were there
were higher order strategic
considerations for ensuring that America
dominated the global system. That was
what was in their interest, in their
institutional interests, that was their
focus. Um, and to the extent that if
Kennedy was threatening that, that would
be a challenge to that power structure.
And you know that's that's the
allegation is that that power structure
you know retaliated. Um and that's yeah
we'll see if we get information on that
but like there seems to have been the
sort of increasing arrows pointing in
that direction. Um and so you're just
implying that that power structure in
the world in which the UFO thing is is
real and there's a lineage of you know
government relationship with that UFO
you know phenomena. It would probably be
that power structure that would kind of
uh hold hold the the keys so to speak.
It's like there weren't that many
presidents that you could say were like
independent of the system. And here
comes Kennedy who's this kind of, you
know,
darling media guy. He's, you know,
pretty boy. Um, who the power structure,
right, if you want to use a general term
to refer to a whole constellation of
different actors and and institutions at
the time that that, you know, wielded
influence and dominated American
politics and our economy and the global
system. uh you know thought that
essentially his daddy got him the
presidency there was a deal made the
mafia the sort of you know the machine
in Chicago etc and that you know if
there was a basic implicit understanding
that the president was there to serve a
certain set of interests and that if you
deviate from those interests well that
essentially you're betraying the deal
right and if you go too far say to do a
dat or denuclearization or even
cooperation on space and these alleged
potent potential UFO technologies. Well,
that would cut straight to the core of
that apparent deal essentially. Oh, you
reneggged like deals off. You don't get
to be president anymore. Um, that seems
like conspiracy theory, but like that
seems like like more and more of the
evidence seems to be pointing in that
direction.
plausible if you look at the historical
record that that's
that seems um yeah and that might be
part of what you know there the reason
why like uh Trump had this embedded in
his in his brain is like JFK and UFOs
are are linked is that
uh yeah that might be part of it that
that there are records apparently uh
that would that would link those two
things.
Yeah. So let let's touch on the Jeff
Krookshank is this Australian
intelligence officer and he's reviewed
the footage from these Johnston ATL so
Marshall Islands tests specifically of
these uh I think ICBM it was actually
defensive interceptors and they were uh
they had X-rays in the nose cones and uh
you know one went off I think it was
around it was October of 1962 I think it
was around the Cuban missile crisis and
it was
November. Yeah,
maybe it was November. Yeah, I think it
was directly after
and it was it was at midnight and the
thing goes off and out of the plume you
see this material like tumble out and
there's video of this that you can see
today and then there's also video of
that um you know uh material tumbling
out being uh superimposed with a white
triangle sanitized and so he's done this
deep dive where he shows that uh Harold
Malgrim actually ends up you know in in
uh uh Los Alamos getting uh debriefed uh
by Lawrence Geese who's the, you know,
Atomic Energy Commission's Albuquerque
director and then a month later you have
JFK come out himself. And so that's not
really that normal for for JFK to come
just check on this like, you know, it is
Los Alamos, but it's like
why would you why would you go out and
visit? And so, you know, maybe, you
know, if if if Malgrim's saying that
he's learning about UFOs from Lawrence
Geese, presumably, you know, the guy
he's advising, the president of the
United States is coming, you know, that
that timing is not the is not a
coincidence. And JFK is probably
learning about the UFO question as well.
And then the other piece of evidence is
you have, you know, Howard Hunt is
Yeah. He's the sort of CIA, you know,
wet works guy.
Yeah. Wet works guy. Agent provocator.
and like all but admitted he was like
involved in the JFK assassination and a
whole host of other things but like you
know wouldn't implicate Dulles cuz he
was you know so quote unquote loyal or
whatever and his lawyer I think it's a
guy named Douglas Caddy and Douglas
Caddy in an interview says that you know
he would persistently question Howard
Hunt like what was why did they actually
take out JFK why did they take out JFK
and at the end of that questioning uh
Howard Hunt says it was the alien
presence and So,
what do you think?
I mean, well, and yeah, I think even
Harold has tweeted, you know, you always
got to have notifications on for Herold.
Um, you know, he he just drops these
things. He just like, here you go. Uh,
and yeah, I think he explicitly
referenced how he had gotten reports
from the the triple prime test. uh which
yeah was I believe it was the gold
encased they took a lot of gold out of
Fort Knox and they just basically put it
around this nuke to do the um I think
it's BM Shalong or basically generates a
sort of X-ray burst which you know
creates amplifies the ability
essentially fry the incoming the
incoming ballistic missile um and
apparently got reports of this object
that had fallen out and was retrieved by
the Navy and then Harold like requested
more information was denied that
and then goes out to Albuquerque to get
ground truth
and then a month later roughly I think
JFK goes on his first visit to that same
lab essentially it looks like he was
doing the advanced you know wait we're
not getting we're not getting the full
story here in Washington like Harold
you're my guy on the ground like figure
out what's really going on here right um
and at the time there was a lot of inner
service rivalries I think between these
different you know branches of the
military which you know I think Curtis
Lame had his own vision for like nuclear
everything he had like crazy plans for
some doomsday weapons and just he wanted
to go whole hog, right? And he had, you
know, and he had his whole power base
and the Navy, you know, wanted to have
their own power base and so they would
have an incentive to kind of hold this
as their trump card. So, I think there's
a lot of institutional rivalry and of
course the atomic energy commission,
division military applications, GIS was
there to kind of be the the main belly
button on all things nuclear and the
military, but like more fundamental
research. So they would they would
ultimately be the and I think Russ has
alluded to this too like they would be
the ultimate custodians for any sort of
R&D effort right
but there's probably a complicated
bargaining position between these
different services and and the Atomic
Energy Commission.
Uh but yeah I think this is part points
to a part of American history where
these you know very very you know
conspiratory uh sort of conspiracy
fodder material is all tied together in
a tight knot. Um, and here we are, you
know, coming up uh, 70 years, 80 years
later, and it's like still like a
pressing matter, like what happened. Uh,
and who knows, like Trump has signed
this executive order to get a plan
written in the next like week or so
about, you know, to disclose more JFK
records.
Tulsi Gabbard on her testimony says
she's going to be focused on that as
well as the anomalous health incident
stuff. Again with all any topic you can
try to uh address it from the question
of what should have what should be what
should have been your prior for that
type of thing and then what is now your
posterior for that sort of thing given a
historical and you know testimonial
evidence. It's it's always better to
start with a prior and it's funny like
if I like you know uh introspect on my
priors for this broader topic I actually
think my naive prior for the reality of
say sigh abilities
should have been I don't think I
actually did this you know baseline
assessment before I was forced to now
like create a posterior uh belief but
it's like I think my prior for the
reality of sci phenomenon should be
higher given my metaphysical sort of um
commitments to something like
protoanssychism
as an integrated metaphysics underlying
a certain theory of physics uh than the
prior for the reality of non-human
intelligence coming from another star
system because to motivate that prior I
have to account for a whole bunch of you
know inter interrelated hypotheses in my
model about the uh processes of
intelligence and the history of 13.7
billion years of the universe and then
number of star systems that are nearby
potentially panspermia in a you know a
local uh ring around the galaxy of of
maybe 10,000 stars that were all
together in a stellar nursery and we
had, you know, asteroid bombardments.
And so there's maybe like, you know, a
one a one in a thousand chance that like
there's an advanced sibling system to us
that was like, you know, born around the
same time that gave us, you know,
primitive uh genetic material, but you
know, was correlated then to our
approximate neighborhood in the universe
and would also have a reason to engage
with us.
And our cosmological models themselves
are just patchwork upon patchwork. like
there's like a scaling problem of your
physical model of reality. And so like
if you get it's like a you know rocket
that's like 2° off course you end up
like you know 99° off course very soon.
And I think that's basically like our
understanding of like cartisian space
you know and like you know space overall
and the planets and stuff. It's it's
pretty shaky and it's very recent. Yeah.
And but I guess my larger point was I
think if you just ask the average person
on the street what's more likely aliens
are visiting us or uh psychics are real.
I think people would go well they're
both crazy but I think aliens are
probably be more likely to be real cuz
but I think that's purely just an
availability bias.
The psychic thing is there's so much
more evidence like you're saying.
Yeah. Availability bias is what what
sorts of media narratives we we have.
We've seen a lot more alien movies and
some psychic movies. That's right. And
so people just think, oh well, you know,
the only ambient facts I have to form
that priority if you ask me that
question is it seems like aliens are a
thing that people talk about and it's in
movies all the time. And yeah, like the
universe is big, but like I've never
read anybody's mind. I've never had my
mind read that I can think of or I've
never moved an object with my head. That
seems, you know,
and and then the funny thing is I think
if they were to truly audit themselves,
they'd be like, "There was that one time
I kind of read somebody's mind." But
well, and in a certain if you're most
people's folk metaphysics is
physicalism, right? which is essentially
you know a branch of that would be the
computational functionalism of you know
Denna and Churchland which is just
almost at a metaphysical level
eliminates the reality of consciousness.
Therefore the basic idea that then there
can be other degrees of freedom in
reality associated with just pure
conscious you know uh consciousness as a
phenomenon are is just ruled out like by
assumption right in your model of
metaphysics that's just not a thing
right and so anyone claiming that to be
a thing is just like it's not an
empirical question of I need to look out
into the world to see is this a thing
that's true it's just it's ruled out by
my metaphysical assumptions right
therefore it must be absurd to even
claim such a thing so you need to that
question forces you then to inspect your
metaphysical commitments about the
nature of consciousness. Whereas the
question of aliens is it's you know
people that are physicists computational
functionalism uh you know adherence.
It's way easier to then motivate oh well
yeah like we exist like we create
rockets somebody else could exist and
create rockets. There's no metaphysical
question at issue there. There's just a
question of time and complexity and
propulsion systems and you know the
probabilities associated with star
systems that could you know uh you know
incubate life interacting with each
other on time scales relevant to our
civilization. So that's a somewhat of a
scientifically grounded question and
this is why the UAP question, the Jake
Barber story is very confronting to a
lot of people because it forces you to
really intellectually and very seriously
engage at this metaphysical layer that
even most people in the in a lot of the
say like the semi-serious profession
professional commentariat on UAPs that
take the story of anomalous UAP objects
very seriously. you know, button
themselves up as being, you know, sober
journalists or or rational people who
inspect the evidence and look at, you
know, government reports and, you know,
they go, "Oh, well, there's lots of
evidence that we have anomalies, but it
could be hypothesis X, Y, and Z, but the
size stuff, oh, that's off the table.
That's crazy."
And it's like, well, that's not really a
rational approach, right? Because a
rational person starts with their
metaphysical assumptions and then builds
up from there. I
I was into the size stuff before I got
into UFOs. So,
I mean, winding roads.
Yeah. Yeah. Uh but that's to your to
your other point about um you know how
do we have certainty on on any of this?
We really don't right. We're always
trying to hold together a lot of what
amounts to very noisy and hard to anchor
together pieces of information. It's why
the AP subject is like
like human science and culture and sort
of our pictures of the world have
evolved at least to first word on an
incremental basis over our history. like
we've just been going through this like
maybe there's been a hidden hand seeding
some things or downloading people or
whoever is maybe there's a there's a
second order process that's sort of
guiding human social and you know our
scientific organizations over time but I
mean you could just look at history and
it's not obvious there was like a you
know like there's lots of inspirational
moments and big geniuses but like there
was a tower of knowledge that took a lot
of time and effort to create and it was
like difficult experiments some smart
person noticing something and then being
like huh like Galileo with the telescope
or you know um Newton and figuring out
okay we can use calculus to look at
these you know the the sort of planetary
uh sort of observations and this you
know basic tricks of oh we formalize
knowledge with math and then we
construct experimental apparatuses this
is the enlightenment project and that's
what we've built civilization on and the
thing about the AAP question it's like
if it turns out that all of a sudden
since maybe the 30s the 40s you know
allegedly we got some material magenta
crash into the post-war eras when we got
subsumed to these larger systematic
industrial academic bureaucracies and
they were hypercharged as our
civilization got you know more and more
technology. It's like, oh, okay, you've
got this potential accelerant, right?
But it's like a nonlinear thing. You've
got access to craft and beings
potentially.
That's just like a nonlinear like we
don't have the systems like our systems
of knowledge have not been built to like
to to deal with that, right? It's like
this it's like this lump, right? And
we've been trying to maybe absorb it or
chip away at, but it's probably just
this rock sitting in the middle of this
of of of the snake. You you you know
what I I worry about a little bit is the
idea that in the 40s and 50s the US
government stand these aerospace prime
contractors started to [__] around with
this stuff and um they couldn't get it
to work and it's been this sort of like
really hard cumbersome process you know
from from from now from then till now
and we were never supposed to have it in
the first place and uh whatever beings
exist on the other side of this you know
I don't know if you saw this Jason Sans,
one of these whistleblowers who was, I
guess, part of the counter intel, was,
you know, perimeter security for the
program and he sort of saw this like
blue alien being at Nellis testing range
in Nevada and he was part of James Fox's
the program. He just went on Joe Rogan
and I think the maybe the most important
part of that interview, he says, uh,
they want their stuff back and they're
going to kill everybody involved in the
program if they don't get it. And, uh,
that's pretty freaky. And so I, you
know, again, I have no mental model or
understanding of any of this stuff, but
like what if we weren't supposed to have
it in the first place and what if, you
know, they're going to come back for it?
Again, it's one of these hypotheticals.
It's hard to know like what to do with
it. Um, but I I do find interesting.
It's like people like the leg, you say
that like we use the term legacy program
and it's now become like this term of
art. But we're sort of referring to is
like a particular pathology in a modern
state institutional structure,
right? That it maybe became pathological
as a result of coming into possession of
some of these materials and then the
sort of you know some threads of
knowledge that were sort of teased out
of it, right? that maybe the the the
psionics knowledge or maybe inspirations
of metamaterials or or novel propulsion
systems and potential weapons that could
be could be created and that that like
hyperpathologized a portion of our
military intelligence system that
essentially delaminated. We talked about
this in the thing in our first interview
and it sort of delaminated and kind of
it's it's like it's like the ring of
power golem, right? It's like starts off
as happy, you know, welladjusted uh
creature and then as a result of having
access to this, you know, totem, this
sort of, you know, this metaphysical
object almost of of of super advanced
capabilities, it it it completely
distorts them into this golem
institution, right? So, it's like the
rings of power, they that's what they
do, right? Um, and it it's an
interesting counterfactual of like
and passing the test is never
taking up the ring and thinking that you
are above the corruption of it. It is
just not holding the ring, not putting
the ring on. That is that is the test.
Th well this is well again this is where
I'm again I always weigh these
antinomies of like like
you could go that direction but if you
take that logic then it's like all of
technology is almost like the Kazinski
thesis is like technology is inherently
corrupting for civilization man in a
modern technological civilization is a
contorted distorted pathized exploited
socialized yeah version of it's a like
we've all become Gollums regardless of
alien technology from a certain philos
philosophical standpoint and therefore
to deolmize humanity we need to return
to a much more agrarian you know
primitive state of nature
some people can make an argument for
that but like you're going to give up a
lot along the way right
yeah I don't believe that
so for me it's a spectrum it's not like
a binary and like for example
hypothetical is think about some of the
more very different institutions that
humans have created over the world over
world history say you know um Socrates
Plato's agora or um you uh high councils
of scholarship in in the in the
scholastic era in in medieval Europe,
you know, enlightened, you know, or or
sort of, you know, circles of of of, you
know, sort of Buddhas um sort of
inheritors, people that were committed
to uh spiritual transformation,
intellectual scholarship, you know, they
weren't connected to warfighting
institutions and state bureaucracies or,
you know, sort of financial institutions
associated with some some sort of elite
network.
They their institution was focused on
knowledge, wisdom, you know, higher
higher purposes. If you had if you had
systems of of of sort of secrecy and
reverse engineering that like were
guided by those people,
would you get the same sort of, you
know, blue beings being like, I'm not
dealing with those murderers and
barbarians on the other side of the
hill, right, in Area 51 that that that
Sans alleged? Would you get a much more
enlightened interreationship between,
hey, this is a really interesting
technology. We love to use this to
further our civilization and bring
humanity, you know, to a much higher
plane of being and and fulfillment and
flourishing
instead of creating platforms for nukes,
right?
I believe that. I think I think seek and
ye shall find and [__] around and you'll
find out and sort of you know if
if you cut to the core of the
parasychological stuff like you you can
instantiate it in its most primitive
form in this random event generator
experiment and it's just basically the
random event generator is like how much
can you affect a random quantum
mechanical process right and the more
heart-c centered and aligned you are
like the more you can and I don't think
you can fake that so you can create a
program around like try and get people
quote quote unquote more heart-c
centered, but your like meta, you know,
objective is to like weaponize all this
[__] and to like be a billionaire or
whatever. It's just not going to work.
Like it's going to fail on you in the
end. And so like you could lie to a
bunch of people about it and like you
know it's just you know it'll be the
myth of FA or Prometheus and like you'll
blow up. And so like I do really believe
what you just said, which is like if you
really want the good stuff to happen,
you actually do have to look within and
and change yourself if you're buying
into this sort of model, the
parasychological model where your
ability to render reality, you know, um
is commensurate with some sort of, you
know, again, this is really loose, but
like internal coherence or growth or
whatever. And you can't really like
operationalize that locally but for some
like like like you know kind of
dystopian objective that's just like not
going to work. So let me throw a
hypothetical at you right like
this is the let's say like
I'll create like an SAT uh analogy here
is like um exercise and diet is to ompic
as you know alien say psionic inspired
practices is to like Buddhist
eskeeticism right it's like
is this a shortcut is this is this a
cheat
yeah or the point is there are no
shortcut like in this model are no
shortcuts. So yeah, you're shutting down
your pancreas of, you know, like
Yeah, like the Zimpic, it gets you what
you thought was an outcome, but there
are there are side effects that acrew
that essentially undermine the value of
that outcome that you thought you were
aiming for, right?
That's right. Yeah. Yeah. No, I I think
that is a a good analogy with higher
cost on the UAP side than, you know,
whatever organs malfunction due to OMIC.
Yeah, I
but there's like maybe again this is
where I stress and again this is almost
like the Skywatcher thing is like this
is the inherent tension is like
there's a certain
folks like you that have been paying
close attention to this have gone down
again this variety of rabbit holes and
come to this realization that it is that
is you need to sort of have this
self-reflective
orientation that there's no one weird
trick or shortcut to enlightenment or
whatever. Um, but the average person
doesn't even know that that's even a
thing that they should like care about,
right? And do you need to have uh
essentially what amounts to profit
motivated or or or finan or financed um
efforts to sort of broaden awareness of
that of that of that thing in and of
itself, right? That stimulates and
catalyzes a much wider swath of humanity
to on that journey.
Yeah. Yeah.
Um
that's the almost like what is
disclosure? Or is disclosure just this
sort of yes non-human intelligence is
real like deal with it or is it a hey
there are now vertical clues about the
structure of reality and the nature of
human consciousness that you know
everyone needs to be aware of in order
to pursue their their existence in in
the in the world in a way that ideally
brings more flourishing and fulfillment
right but it it unlocks that's this is
the tension between technology and pure
spiritualism right? Is is I don't see
this as like a binary or is like a
trade-off like there there technologies
clearly upleveled humanity to the point
where you and I can have a conversation
that we wouldn't have able been having
or be able to get access to knowledge
and inter and social relationships and
you know is again kind of personal
satisfaction that would otherwise have
not been possible without the predicates
of modern technology. And so again, I'm
I'm fundamentally maybe I'm I'm a fence
sitter is like there's always a there's
always a gray zone of you can go you
like the ring of power can always
corrupt. It's like the question is is it
really a ring of power or or is it like
reality ultimately is just what it is
and humans are trying to understand it
and that process of understanding
doesn't is not guaranteed a good outcome
for humanity. Like we we can put our
hand in the box in in the whatever is it
um is it bowrumm right? It's like there
may be knowledge, dangerous knowledge,
right? Like not all knowledge is just oh
this is a sunshine, this is a rainbow.
Oh, this is like forever knowledge. It's
like this is world destroying knowledge,
right? Like there's no guarantee that
the box of knowledge humanity is dipping
its hand into is going to be like good
knowledge. Um does that mean you stop
dipping your hand in the in in the box?
I don't know.
No. No. Well, so I think that technology
is you can't go back. You can't do the
Kazinski thing. Um I think it's a
forcing function and it's a sort of a
generic template and there's there's a
forcing function in that like you
you're like uh ability to like manifest
results in reality as you know a result
of the technology is like like the
latency is like you know much lower and
so and like the multiplicative effect is
much higher right like you scale these
things and so I would just say you know
like the you know it's like the Peter
Teal went on Joe Rogan he was like you
uh uh these things have to be angels or
demons.
It's not that they might be demons or
angels, they must be demons or angels if
you have faster than light travel. And
both of those seem pretty crazy to me.
So I I would just say um if your
intention is not like you know updating
or or or you know growing or you know
being being molded in this sort of
positive way and there's not this like
in introspective feedback loop
commensurate with advancements in
technology or like putting your hand in
the box then you're [__] But I don't
think you know keeping your hand you
know out of the box at all times is like
that's like the right answer. So that
that's the way I would put it. But and I
don't know who's I don't think there is
a master plan for this, but I almost
think the psyionics thing, while it's
maybe more indigestible for the media
and consumer,
it's critical to try to steer whatever
chaotic disclosure path we're on, you
know, towards the maybe more beneficial
outcomes because if it if that aspect of
this whole story was like continually
suppressed and always just pushed off to
the side and was just always, you know,
only centered on,
you know, metamaterials, anti-gravity,
vacuum, polar ization Einstein Carton
torsion terms like how do we engineer
spacetime how do we develop you know
that's effectively you know that's only
one half of the story and it's the half
that's the more likely to go wrong in
the way that you're you know worried
about right it's like we're more likely
to try to develop faster weapons and
missiles and you know let's go colonize
let's try to take an asteroid oh wait
you that means now somebody could create
an anti-gravity device that can move an
asteroid and blow up the whole earth
like that's a problem that's blackbox
that that's a black ball technology. But
on the other hand, the consciousness
side, I think I don't know like because
people haven't necessarily treated it as
seriously as it needs to be, I don't
know if as much analysis has gone into
like, okay, you dip your hand into the
consciousness jar, like what black balls
are in the consciousness jar, right?
Like if there's, you know, secret
physics jar, dip your hand in into the
secret physics jar, you know, oh wait,
we get to have maybe positive energy
sources that, you know, we don't have to
burn fossil fuels. we don't have to
exploit the environment, but oh, but now
we, you know, anyone can just like, you
know, zip around and take an asteroid
and throw it at the Earth. It's like
that's probably bad, but maybe we can
have better defensive systems. But now
you've got this a whole new game theory
of kind of the the capability space that
you have to reparameterize.
Consciousness though, because we haven't
it's like no like, you know, at least
with aerospace technologies and space
war and space economy, we've got models,
we've got, you know, the game theoretic
dynamics, the state and non-state, you
know, kind of uh capacities to try to
operationalize. is and it would it would
be highly disruptive. But it's like we
can even we can sort of start to create
frameworks.
The consciousness thing, you know,
because we've put into this wooy jar of
ineffable
somewhat, you know, very, you know, like
doesn't seem like a systematized thing,
right? And when you have systematized
capabilities, it turns into technology.
That's what technology is. Yeah. So if
it turns out that the program or other
people have figured out that there's a
certain part of the brain that if you
tickle in the right way or you
like remote viewing is now 10xed.
Yep.
Right. Or clairvoyance is now activated
in a much larger set of the population
or these you know these non-verbal
autistics uh that the whole Kai Dickens
uh you know it's social tapes has looked
into. I know you you've interviewed her.
It's like okay
imagine that. Imagine you were able to
essentially, you know, take that
capability but activate it in in not a
non-verbal but like just, you know,
somebody else and slightly more with a
slightly more neurotypical um sort of
cognitive setup. And what does that do
for for social norms, right? If you're
if you can read each other's minds like
like I mean that would probably be
ironically the one failure mode for
Bitcoin is if it turns out remote
viewing is like hyper accurate. Y
then like the security protocols for
private keys needs to change. You've got
complete birectional transparency. You
know, people would be able to remote
view the Q codes like it would be
there'd be all sorts of, you know,
countermeasures and there'd be yeah,
second and third order changes to a lot
of things if our basic assumptions
around what humans can do, see and know
or communicate is very different than
what we
I just I think we're in the stone age on
this. I I always go back to that this
one line from the Kai Dickens telepathy
tapes where one of the kids, I'm
forgetting exactly which one, says, uh,
"Mom, you don't get my powers if you
lie." And like there's there's something
so profound and important about that.
And like it's like this, you know, it's
so easy for us to kind of, you know, um,
import our own, you know, oh, let's just
isolate, you know, the technique and
turn it into a science and make it
repeatable, turn it into math somehow.
And then there's something actually
about like the the deeper ontology when
you like hear what they're saying.
They're talking about God in this like
extremely intimate way. And by the way,
you were you were earlier than anybody
on the telepathy tapes. But um yeah,
like that that seems more important than
uh you know this this sort of like need
to just turn it into this like locally
repeatable science as far as actually
even making the thing work. But then
even me saying that like I'm not helping
anybody by saying that like you
literally just have to like fix yourself
before you like get into this stuff
and a whole another thing that you have
to like bridge yourself into these
different scenarios. like if something
like the Jason Sans scenario is true and
there's essentially like like part of
our technological exploration of these
phenomenon whether it's the you know
more technical aspects or the you know
the psycho techchnical aspects um that
that's essentially like a semi-regulated
human activity regulated by non-human
intelligence per at least to my
perspective like unknown norms right of
sort of behavior like what's a
permissible experiment that we can run
with that technology like are there it's
like in in a in a certain sense you
could interpret that cautiously
optimistically that there is some sort
of regulative framework that we're
that's that's unknown to at least to me
that uh is keeping guardrails on our
exploration like we dip our hand in we
start to pick up the black box and some
NHI hand goes nope right or we start to
try to weaponize consciousness in a bad
way and they're like nope you get turned
off right like I think there's even been
accounts in the toilet
I think they can do that I think it's a
threebody problem they can just shut us
down whenever they want
so in a certain sense it's like, okay,
well, how how many tries, how many runs
at that fence, right, do we get, right,
as like a learning, you know, mode. It's
like, okay, they're going to they're
going to test the fence. That's what
that's natural. Every human civilization
test the fence. But an intelligent
civilization
that keeps testing the fence,
that looks like they might try to break
through the fence.
Yep.
Well, they need to be put down, right?
That's that's that's the that's the
implicit threat. But, you know, also
like opportunity like, oh, if we
recognize the fence is there
and we like stop trying to test the
fence line. It's it's an inherent
challenge to our sovereignty and our
place in the hierarchy of being, but it
then removes the existential risk. And
it means that okay, as long as we
recognize we're in this fence that we
can sort of
continue to develop ourselves
technologically and maybe, you know,
psychically uh in a in a in a in a
garden essentially, right? And then when
we reach a certain level of, you know,
maturity where we're let out.
Well, that is I think the garden or the
fence is like materialist reductionism.
And like you see like with saints, for
example, as they sort of like lose their
own like materialist reductionist
worldview. Not that like many of these
people existed prematerialist
reductionism, but like as they start to
ascend into like higher kind of, you
know, again, I'm using really vague
words, but like interactions with the
celestial or whatever. uh they it it
sort of freaks them out and they like h
they have to like look within they have
to reform themselves and it's a sort of
like two steps forward one step back
process and so I do wonder on some level
like you know I've for example been so
pro discislosure up until now and now it
does feel like this sort of Pandora's
box and Pandora's box in the sense that
like you know you have hope but then
there's like a whole lot of like you
know bad stuff that comes with it.
I mean I think this is where we're you
know We need new institutions which are
fundamentally just more accreted more
formal structures of norms and and human
sort of uh collective beliefs right like
this is a phenomenon that we need to
construct an entire new institutional
framework around
right not just a you know not just a you
know an LLC right you need
[clears throat]
like you need actually novel
institutions to confront this novel
phenomenon I think
the institutions that we created or kind
of that we you know we sort of wrapped
around this information, you know, were
essentially our military and scientific
institutions wedded to the state
apparatus in the post-war environment.
And those are certain institutions set
up by certain people with a certain
mission and mandate and psychological
orientation to the state and their class
and their military and scientific and
intelligence proists. And so that you
know that institution was what was what
was now sort of absorbed this technology
or this this phenomena and had to
understand it, try to apply it, etc.
But if you were like starting from
scratch like that would not be the ideal
institutions you would want to give like
that that mandate of like how to level
humanity up right by minimizing risk and
maximizing opportunity for collective
success and flourishing right given
whatever constraints that might exist.
And that means like you truly do need
like blank sheet of paper new
institutions.
Yeah.
Right. From the bottom up, right? new
institutions to study it, to finance it,
to organ organize around it, to diffuse
it, to create new norms around it. Um
like that's a massive human project that
we haven't even because nobody who has a
collective acceptance that disclosure is
a thing coming, but like the big project
of post disclosure is going to be, you
know, creating new institutions or
adapting more likely existing
institutions or some combination of the
two to carry forward that project.
Right.
So you think we should build a Bitcoin
exotic physics and spiritual development
foundation? Is that what you're trying
to say?
You know, this is the game [laughter] is
is take all your side quests and turn
them into the main quest, right? If it's
like, you know, I've been on the
geopolitical and cyber, you know, uh,
intelligence sort of, you know, main
quest and then Bitcoin has now become
the main quest and then UAPs were the
side quest, you know, like the the next
logical move is just to make them all
the same thing. Right. Right. Uh now I
don't know how to do that obviously but
I think it's going back to the very
beginning of the conversation is
interesting phenomenon that like bitcoin
uh is a socical system and has elements
it's a core technical breakthrough it's
a you know it's a piece of software that
people are running you know but it is
also it's a meme right it's a set of
collective beliefs and the interesting
thing about bitcoin the reason why maybe
it's like have this like hyper
acceleration in terms of its adoption
and then kind of this reflect
reflexivity is that that mimemetic um
sociotechnical system has an indogenous
asset that uh that essentially gives the
believers of that of that of that
sociotechnical systems potential more
power in the world. Yeah.
To to spread that to spread the gospel
essentially, right?
Yeah.
And so there's a flywheel embedded into
sort of this mimemetic um machine. With
the UAP subject, there really isn't that
flywheel, right, that's built in. You
have podcast, you have advertising
revenue for people that are interested
in this thing, but it's not like
that big, right? Um, but obviously I
think in general I mean the Bitcoin
committee will like you know cast me as
an aostate. But I think ultimately the
AP question is more important than the
Bitcoin question. Oh yeah, but I think
you know the fuel to create the new
institutions you need in a post
disclosure world I think will actually
come from Bitcoin.
Makes sense,
right? I think you have and you know my
buddy Zel, he was he gave me these
numbers. He's like if Bitcoin monetizes
to the level of gold, right? you know,
relatively on a global, you know, say
market uh cap or sort of market value
basis, then you'll have roughly equal
numbers of Bitcoin billionaires and say
fiat billionaires. Yep.
In the world.
That's wild.
Which is kind of a unique historical
circumstance. Oh yeah.
Right. That you have this new class of
very wealthy people that all basically
believe very similar things and are also
very heterodox thinkers. They're
relatively young and they're they're
they've now had success in building a
sort of a novel global non-state
institution that's now given them a lot
of political power, right? And they're
probably interested in lots of things,
right? They're probably curious about
about the world and they're not, you
know, wedded to, you know, particularly
and they probably want to have an impact
with that wealth, right? What do you do?
You have a bunch of Bitcoin. Like,
congrats, right? Go on your island.
Like, chill. Or like maybe you should
invest in the deepest secrets of of the
universe and like help unlock humanity's
potential. That would be cool if the
billionaires weren't just posturing
around who has a bigger yacht or
whatever, you know, buying private
island.
I mean, wouldn't it be like amazing just
to endow like a Yeah. like a research
syndicate and a institution that is like
imagine if you had the philosopher kings
of ancient Greece with with alien craft
and billions of dollars.
That would be awesome. So, yeah, I think
that would be really really cool. just
like I think that some of the what I
worry about, you know, as far as what
might be happening now is like this like
need to like operationalize like you
have no you have no priors on the
history of success on the pro of the
program itself. You have very little
priors. it's just this black box and you
have you're like operationalizing these
like little things kind of as an
extension like the sort of private you
know public partnership de facto thing
or whatever and like I I worry about
that if you don't have like a good
mental map of like what's going on
overall just like I would worry about
like the government doing things without
any sort of mental map just because like
your only mandate is like national
security and so I do think like having
the you know modern Plato symposium is
like a fantastic idea and
uh people who are goodwilled and earnest
just trying to figure having have figure
out a map
um and then align and then aligning
yourself with the good stuff
and then you can like you can you know
get a little more operational after that
or something. I think there's there's
definitely a you know a path dependency
here that could go wrong in many
different ways like building new
institutions that serve their
original say like naive uh original
mandate
is a is a difficult process right we've
seen this go wrong like in many cases
where you create something it's really
well motivated and then it gets
distorted or bent over time or
internally corrupted or distracted and
it's very hard right and I think
that's just there's no one weird trick
to do that right um but it's a
that uh it seems like you know we're not
ready to do that right now but it is a
project
in a post-d
like well how do you catalyze disclosure
without waiting for big daddy government
to give it to you well you have to now
do it on your own and that's essentially
what I think the Skywatcher team is
trying to do is essentially we're trying
to collect with you know private
resources and our skills and knowledge
from our aspects of engagement with the
program you know enough information to
convince you a marginally more subset of
the population of the reality of this
phenomenon. And disclosure is not like a
you know like oh this is disclosure.
It's a it's a process that unfolds more
and more people just leveling up their
priors on more of these different
hypotheses and eventually you get to the
point where oh there's a billionaire
here. There's a billionaire here.
There's a billionaire here. There's a
bunch of scientists. There's a bunch of
academics. There's a bunch of policy
people and they all now collectively
look at each other and there kind of
this, you know, preference falsification
cascade and they go, "Oh, this is a
serious thing. It's real. It needs to be
seriously addressed at scale in a novel
way that like our existing institutions
can't really confront."
Like, oh, you got think like Rand, they
can do some things. You've got some
venture capital people, they can do some
things. You've got academic
institutions, you've got, you know, Gary
Nolan at Stanford. Everyone's trying to
take
their own pieces of current institutions
and trying to contribute to some, you
know, initiative. Mhm.
Soul Foundation, etc. I think it's it's
all necessary and admirable, but it's
clearly just these raw individual heroic
initiatives, right? And clearly the the
ultimate question is so much larger than
what, you know, individual heroic
efforts are going to be able to
accomplish, right? It's a necessary just
first step. Um, but like if you're
really, you know, trying to put yourself
in this post-disclosure, whatever that
is, world,
you know, it's going to catalyze a lot
of change and a potential a lot of, you
know, disruption to existing
institutions. And I think it's important
that you have the germs of new
institutions that can kind of, you know,
act as ballast, right, to kind of absorb
that. Uh and I think you know I'm not
shilling Bitcoin here but it's like
Bitcoin is interesting because it has
these features of it's it's a global
non-state uh you know suotechnical
system that has its own indogous network
indogenous asset and you know third
party uh free sort of you know network
um with a lot of you know people with a
lot of capital embedded in it. So it's
like it's like a substrate that you
could potentially use to catalyze, you
know, nucleate different institutions,
right? That
that are somewhat orthogonal to the
existing institutional structures,
right? They have relationships, too,
right? They're not like completely on an
island,
but it's a degree of freedom that didn't
exist before
and there might be new new possibilities
between mixing and matching old and new
together that could, you know, provide a
basis to do something different that
these institutions just hard, right?
like the the the classic Francis
Fukiyama um Kerr you can read his book
uh political order political decay
brilliant diagnosis of kind of human
history and the sorts of different um
social institutions governance uh
systems we've created and they
historically all follow this you know
similar pattern right where there's um
there's uh you know founding founding uh
you know partners right of the state or
or even religious organizations and
they're imbued with energy they've
they're They're they're successful
because they solved some aspect of of a
novel problem in the environment that
the existing institutions couldn't,
right? So they they they now have the
alpha, right? They're now creating
something new and they've figured out,
you know, a new niche to expand and
explore and they can build something,
right? A new institution and it gets
momentum. It's get it gets energy.
They're creating something. They have a
sense of purpose and vision and sort of
founding. It's like the founding fathers
of America, etc. like those are idolized
because there was you know that's like
the the you know they were creating this
novel institution called called America
and then there's some you know process
by which those institutions um start to
increasingly formal at the beginning
they're very personalized right say
Satoshi right everyone knows like that's
a person uh Hal Finny that's a person
right um you know the founding fathers
those are people like their individual
decisions made a huge amount of
difference like the the federalist
papers and Declaration of Independence
and these initial amendments to the
Constitution. These were like again like
going back to the big bane analogy like
there was a lot of degrees of freedom
and those initial founders were like the
first they a lot of first mover
advantage to kind of condense that space
down and then create a structure that
could could create a um
uh a possibility space for lots of other
things to evolve. But in in in a
political uh kind of evolution like in
in Fukyama's terms, you know, that
starts to get settled and then the next
generations kind of refine, optimize,
formalize, depersonalize those
institutions. Right now it's like a
bureaucracy with, you know, uh titles
and roles that get handed down on a
result ideally of merit. It's not just
like the brother or cousin or or son
that takes on that that role. Um and
that's a formal modern institutional
structure that usually works for some
time until like any institutional
structure like software code you know
you start from scratch and it usually
does what it's supposed to do over time
you have to you know edit additional um
you know modules or make you know a new
programmer come comes in and slaps
something different on and it starts to
develop you know what's called bones law
which is like rot software software
tends to rot like on like a mathematical
curve and I think the same thing is with
human institutions which are systems of
norms and rules basically basically
embedded into a into a certain
institutional framework. And so you get
to this point where the the rules
basically start to become overburdened
and they are increasingly rigid uh and
they can't adapt to what ultimately you
know world is chaos, world is change.
And so human institutions that go
through this pattern eventually start to
lag reality, right? And there's then
there's inefficiencies, there's costs
that start to occur over time. And you
get to this critical point in any
institution where the the systems of
rules become too rigid and they can't
adapt to reality and the lag the gap
between essentially their design and the
need for their for them to perform given
the external environment becomes too
great and they're very brittle and then
you get a shock you get a war you get a
famine you get a you know woo cyber
attack now like who knows something
happens and it breaks the institution
it's like a nonlinear change and then
everyone realizes oh this is not going
to work anymore
right and then you everyone along the
line is sort of okay, kick the can, kick
the can, kick the can. This it's worked.
It's it's worked well this far. You
know, that curve will just keep going. I
don't want to have to make the hard
choices on my watch, right? Like just
make it someone else's problem, you
know, in the next election, etc. And
that that works, you know, up until it
doesn't, right? And then you then the
institutions really break and then
there's a crisis
and then you have to make a call. You
either eventually just like it's like
posts Soviet Russia where it's just the
the institutions are completely
demoralized and just taken apart and you
know privatized and the mafias take over
and you really degrade society back to a
very like pre-state state right it's
warlordism essentially factionalism or
you you recognize that crisis coming and
you realize you need to kind of like
bounce right you need to create new
institutions right that can sort of take
that crisis energy and direct it you
formalize it and then create new
founding, you know, teams to sort of,
okay, now we can build something out of
this crisis,
right? And so if you think about, you
know, the disclosure as being this kind
of recognition that the legacy program
is rotten basically in more ways than
one, maybe bureaucratically
institutionally, maybe also morally
rotten
and it it may be in the process of
breaking basically, right? Everyone's
defecting out of it, right? That's what
seems to be happening. Uh that's also
what you see happening when other
institutions break, right? people look
around, they go, "Oh, like this isn't
going to my my future isn't here
anymore. Like, I got to get out." Like,
it's a now it's the first who whoever's
out first basically wins, right? Um it's
how you know police organizations take
down mafias, right? You sort of chip
away at it until everyone realizes, oh
wait, like my boss is going to turn on
me, so I better be the first one to to
rat or whatever. So, you get this
nonlinear cascade collapse. And if we're
that's what's happening here, okay, it's
going to be good from one perspective
like the rot institution is failing.
But that can that can that can go really
wrong if you don't have you know in mind
new institutions that you want to you
know start to nucleate that can sort of
take that energy in a much more positive
direction.
So maybe that's that's you know this
that's sort of the motivating conceptual
sort of conceptual framework to think
about um how do you do that? How do you
build institutions to that can take into
account the whole pluralistic diversity
of perspectives on what's really
happening here? It's not like a new
religion that's going to because that
could be the failure mode, right? You
get factionalism, you get people that
just in the chaos, you know, pick on one
thing and create a new religious
institution, right? That's
what we'd like to do. We need certainty
of belief.
Um, but that's how you create cults.
That's how you create,
you know, internal division. You
essentially state state decay or
collapse even. And so how do you you
know avoid that right? Ideally, you want
to maintain what we currently have built
in terms of modern prolistic, you know,
scientifically grounded, you know,
social organizations that uh now have to
sort of adapt and reconfigure to
address, you know, maybe a new
possibility space for technology and and
humanity itself. And that's that's
that's a non-trivial thing to do, but I
don't know. I think it's like an
important project. Uh, and you look
around like who's got the money to fund
that? That would be like crazy enough to
try, right? I actually think it could
probably be like a bunch of Bitcoiners
that would be willing to do that, right?
They'd be like, "We kind of did that
like with Bitcoin, like this is the next
bit, right? We're gonna do that next."
Um, so that might be a bit of a lar
right now, but I don't know. It's
non-trivial to me that in the next few
years, you could see
um something like that get created. I
think it'd be kind of cool.
Well, I'm curious to see where things go
from here, Matt. And I feel like you're
on the the forefront of so much of it.
And uh yeah, it's it's it's an exciting,
wild time. I I have a feeling 2025 is
just going to be the one of the weirdest
years we've had maybe in a millennium.
I mean, I think it's a safe prediction
at any given year to say this will be
the weirdest year.
I think that just we're just on that
curve.
Yeah.
And just, you know,
it's getting weirder and weirder
every Yeah. And so like
it's more about the derivative of
weirdness. Uh is that going to
accelerate?
I think it might it might be a step
stepwise leap, but I don't know.
Yeah. Well, that's although one little
personal commentary is like this is the
interesting thing is you know going
wrapping all this together like the
Bitcoin the AI the alien these things
are if you imagine there's kind of this
there's this median um distribution of
opinion what's considered kind of inside
the overton window and it's a
distribution and there's some you know
ineffable sort of zone outside where if
you're outside that zone you're either
conspiracy theor theorist you're a
fringe kook you're you know just you're
out there right
and then there are things that are like
legitimate but like kind of you know
still considered somewhat impolite and
that's like almost like Havana syndrome
sorts of stuff right it's like just
inside the over window but disputed but
people say it's a cookie thing but lots
of people yeah but now it's increasingly
a serious thing and
what's fascinating is like individuals
right and maybe myself right I've sort
of gravitated to sort of stay on that
like whatever that liinal zone is
I think I don't know psychologically but
just I'm just attracted to that part of
like things that are coming in off of
that side of the distribution
But you almost think about it as like a
wave because I think that that whole
distribution of itself is moving, right?
And so ironically, if I like picked a
certain point on that curve and just
stayed there.
Yeah.
Like what my my like fringe opinions on
Bitcoin and UAPs four or five years ago
are now like increasingly like normie.
Yeah.
Right.
And so it's like if I don't if I don't
like constantly try to look further out
Yeah.
Right. It's like oh the the reality of
non-human intelligence was like fully
out there. Now it's like coming in and
now you've got this new and now you got
psionics. It's like oof. Well, okay.
That's the that's the new thing out
there.
But that's probably also coming in. So
like this whole curve I'm looking at.
I'm like and I'm just I didn't know what
the shape of that curve is. All I know
is like where I am sort of on it through
like I get sort of subtle feedback on
Twitter and professional and
semi-professional networks of like where
am I on this curve
is like a clue to how fast the median
you know shape is moving and it seems
like that whole shape is moving this
direction. Yeah.
Right. uh which is you know if you you
take any stats class like if you move
the mean of a of a distribution like the
tails explode
right there's like an asymmetric like
effect
uh like if you cut off the left side
right the the the right side explodes
right um and so there's just like a
statistical analogy here which is even
if it's like a subtle movement in the
mean perception of these things
like the the effect on the margin
especially what that threshold is is
changing much faster Yep.
I think that's what you see now. That's
what your podcast think represents.
I think [laughter] that's that's like
that's the alpha Jesse Michaels podcast.
Yeah. It's funny to watch these like
people who have credentials that well
exceed mine, but they're like they they
have to like call me like on Signal or
something, you know, and they have to
just be like, you know, okay, you know,
maybe there's something here and like,
you know, send me some papers on it or
whatever. They can't like kind of like
fully like own it because it's like too
fringy for them. And so it's like this
and then they do some like hedging thing
publicly where they're like we should
look into this but it there's 99% like
nothing there and then you just watch
them like crumbling like over time like
as they realized
everything's just way weirder than they
think. And there is something nice about
like not being in that not having to
play that game like not having to like
optics or you know care about optics or
like posture at all. If any of these
weirder frameworks are real, you can't
have your talented STEM students just
growing up not thinking they exist. Like
that doesn't work. I again in the world
in which like we're at par with our
adversaries, which you'd have to assume
that we kind of are at least as far as
the basic existence of the frameworks.
But that's back to my point about like
the median moves a little bit and like
that like the tails move a lot. Like
that's an example of the tail moving a
lot. Mhm.
And the thing is you you're done venture
capital, you've done investing, you
know, if you're doing intellectual, you
know, investing in this sense. Uh if
you're only paying attention to the
mean, you're missing the movement on on
the on the on the tail.
And that is that is where the dramatic
change is happening. And I see you you
have to be looking there and you have to
say, okay, well, that is a pretty
dramatic shift
that pretends, you know, an even more
dramatic evolution the next, you know,
year or two.
Yeah. And it's like that, you know, like
Timor Kurand, you know, that is this
like Duke professor, he talks about like
preference falsification and it's always
this like very quick cascade. So, and
it's not preference falsification, but
it's like, you know, the the mean
shifting will be uh, you know, very
fast. Like, it'll it'll happen at the
tail and then it'll like bulge up and
then and then it'll just like it it
it'll accelerate much quicker like sort
of exponentially quickly and then and
then all of a sudden the mean will be
like in an entirely different place like
like after that.
And that's that's that's goes back to
the whole like you need to have
that can be a disruptive process, right?
cuz like a lot of the social
institutions we have are framed around
with like the mean right it's like
everyone believes you know this is the
basic architecture this is the
assumptions around next week next month
next year 20 years my retirement my kids
etc etc like I just did estate planning
this morning right it's like very
practical trust how to make sure my kids
get what I get you know it's like okay I
have to plan 20 30 years and that's like
okay a certain psychological orientation
to the future
but then you've got this other these
other developments here and even I who
pay very close attention to it it's very
hard to try to stitch those together.
Oh, it's extreme,
right? It's like how do I,
you know, I need I know I need to do
this. This is like what I need to do,
right? But like I don't really know what
20 30 years is going to look like.
Put it on big,
right? That's an insane like it's just
so much. It's like a event horizon which
I can't really see. Do you think like,
you know, I think uh FDR bought like a
huge percentage of like the gold supply
and like put it in Fort Knox and then
post Bread and Woods, this is a total
oversimplification, but you could say
that a lot of American foreign policy
was just like governed by the need to
have somewhat control or like friendly,
you know, eyes on like some percentage
of like the world's crude oil or
something. Yeah. Do you think that
Bitcoin becomes that now? Especially if
you were to get these sort of like
breakthroughs in energy like say you get
something weird on the UAP side. You get
some break you see you get um you know
over unity you know or you get you know
get free energy or something and you
know fusion works you know at scale. Um
then then then would Bitcoin become this
like all of a sudden you get this like
crazy game theory dynamic over Bitcoin
where like that becomes the new oil
which was the new gold or something.
Well yeah and I think uh there's a few
things. One is I don't think Bitcoin is
UAP proof but it might be UAP resistant
in that sense. I don't think I'm sure
you can say anything is Bitcoin is UAP
proof. I like disclosure proof maybe is
a better way of saying it. Um, and uh,
like I think I have a I had like a semi-
tongue-in-cheek tweet like four or five
years ago that's like, "What's your UAP
hedge hashtag Bitcoin?" It was a
response to this uh, like FT alpha
article is talking about like financial
stability risks associated with
uh, UAPs disclosure, right? Uncertainty,
technological paradigms being changed,
branded assets, sociological, religious,
institutional disruptions, etc. The
whole kitten kaboodleoodle. Um, which is
interesting, right, from an investor's
perspective, which is you want to hold
your money for the long term. You know,
most people have a per balanced weighted
assets of like sovereign debt, right?
Mostly treasury bonds. Maybe some people
have some gold, right? The old standby
in case things get totally crazy. You've
got, you know, diversified equity
exposure to make sure there's any
technology changes, right? New
paradigms, whether it's big tech, you
know, you've got energy utility plays,
you know, and then maybe you have your
flyer 2.5 2 to 5% Bitcoin kind of like
thing. Um that's probably the you know
the new investment sort of you know sort
of distribution
if you you know no one can predict what
will really come out in terms of
technology or the diffusion or the rate
of change um of these paradigms but even
if you just get one or two big changes
right say you do get um not free energy
because I don't think that's physically
possible in the universe there's no such
thing as free energy but you get
extremely high energy return on energy
invested sorts of you know systems maybe
you can draw energy out of the vacuum
but there's no such thing free energy.
You actually have to do some amount of
work, but it's going to be like a high
payoff relative to your, you know,
whatever engineering devices you have to
put together. Um, and not we're not even
sure if that's physically possible
because you can do CASmir to just get,
you know, to do this, but that's not
that's a that's a reversible process.
You have to like you can't develop an
engine based off of that. Um, at least
not to not to my knowledge. Uh but then
say you do get something like
antigravity or some novel propulsion
system that allows you to pull forward
say the feasibility of asteroid mining
at scale by 10 or 20 years like that's
now on the horizon for just conventional
propulsion. And we know that if you can
do asteroid mining you can probably get
like you know massive amounts of these
right now very scarce resources don't
become scarce anymore. And or if you get
a ore extraction and refining technology
some some sort of laser thing that can
just you know blast out of the ore and
isolate all the gold. Well, maybe you go
from a process that right now generates
2% of new gold in a year and keeps gold
as a old standby scarce reserve asset.
If now you have new technology allows
you to create uh five or 10 or 20% new
gold every year, well then gold's
viability as a reserve asset that's
scarce enough goes away, right? So new
technology can fundamentally change the
sort of monetary predicate of our of our
global system. Uh, and sovereign debt is
sort of the ser what serves as the the
global reserve asset right now. And
we're in, you know, if you read Ray
Dalia's new book, we're kind of in the
sort of endgame of that kind of
sovereign debt crisis where we're now
paying more on interest than we do than
we do on our defense. Uh, and we're
heading to the point where you get this
reflexivity where now the Fed cuts rates
on the short end, the long end goes up
by an equivalent maybe even more. That's
a classic symptom of sort of latestage
uh, debt cycles. uh and you know it's
very hard to get out of those without
essentially monetizing the debt,
financial oppression, capital controls.
It's usually what you see, right? You
have to, you know, inflate the debt away
or you risk cascading defaults and great
depression. So, you've got to
effectively cap rates, run the economy
hot, try to devalue, but the more debt
you have, the more of a pain you have to
impose. You've got to isolate sources of
capital and impose losses on them. And
so they're gonna be fleeing to and
that's usually, you know, essentially
that's the bond market that has to get
effectively, you know, taken out back
and shot, right? Like, and usually the
governments don't forecast that. They
don't give people clues. It just
happens, right? That's how you make sure
the sheep roll in the pen and then you
you you you call the herd. So you're
going to have toize the the global bond
market, uh, the global sovereign bond
market in particular. Um, it's not just
the US, it's basically the whole world
at this point. Um and so there's going
to be this movement to you know harder
assets that are harder to do that too
right so gold and bitcoin that's kind of
become almost consensus now among major
institutional investors radalio etc. You
know, I think right now the the basic
ratio is like a five or 10 to1 gold to
Bitcoin allocation in terms of the level
of trust, you know, and the
institutional levels between gold and
Bitcoin. But that seems to be the the
posture, right? In fact, there was a
story in the FT that the London gold the
London gold um uh uh vaults are
basically being emptied because a bunch
of uh you know, it's all moved to New
York essentially um because they're
worried about tariffs, but I think
there's other things going on there too.
Uh
so people are repositioning at scale.
Um, in fact, one quick anecdote on that.
The Swiss uh army uh sort of signals
intelligence guy gave a quote to like a
pretty niche satellite magazine several
months ago about how they were noticing
that certain synthetic aperture radar
satellites flown by the US and China
were intensively monitoring
their territory.
Um it's like what do you use synthetic
aperture satellites to do? They're
especially
super high resolution. super high
resolution is actually terrain mapping.
So you can detect you know sub
millimeter deformationations and say the
shape of a mountain side the the uh the
um the settling of a building or trucks
moving in and out. So if you were moving
large amounts of gold, say out of Swiss
faults
and moving that around the world, that
would be a thing of of acute
intelligence collection interest to both
US and China. Where's that gold going?
You know, gold's hard to track
otherwise, right? There's no blockchain
for for gold. Um, and a lot you look at
the just the balance of of disclosed
transfers. There's been a huge amount of
imports to Saudi Arabia from Swiss um in
terms of the gold account.
So anyways, that's a bit of a sidebar on
the monetary side, but this is
Wait, we got to close that loop. Yes.
Well, no. So, this is this is I think
they're trying to sell gold, buy
Bitcoin.
Uh, well, that's a separate question. I
have heard that of the in the Emirates,
for example, explorations of, you know,
trying to there's a lot of say there's a
ton of gold and other scarce assets, you
know, art and whatever that has just
been tucked away in Swiss vaults. Mhm.
Um Swiss banking secrecy laws have have
been changing uh especially after the
Russian invasion and essentially you
know large pools of what you call shadow
wealth is no longer feeling safe in
Switzerland. So they're trying to go
back home right in Saudi Arabia and in
the Emirates or other wealth countries
or in Asia and Singapore Hong Kong etc.
And so there's been a reconfiguration of
where say the hidden wealth of the world
wants to go and they're realizing now
that actually if you just want to hold
gold in a Swiss vault for 100 years it's
been great right but at the moment you
realize it could be seized or sanctioned
um there's a new risk premium attached
to it and then you want to move it well
that's super expensive to move right
it's extremely expensive and then
actually you're like oh if I could just
sell the gold buy Bitcoin I can then
teleport the Bitcoin and maybe buy buy
back gold essentially there with a local
importer Maybe maybe that fee actually
that transaction cost is cheaper than
actually physically transporting the
gold. But then if you're doing that, you
might be you might be convinced to just
keep five or 10% of that in Bitcoin
along the way. Y, right? Oh, maybe I
don't sell it all back into gold, right?
There's a that's an extra conver that's
an extra transaction fee. Maybe I'll
keep some of it in Bitcoin, right? So, I
think that is happening now. Um, there's
institutions, I think, being set up in
the Middle East to facilitate that type
of trade.
Do you think you see game theory play
out on the global scale with Bitcoin? So
like do you have you know smaller
players like Boulli of El Salvador who
like I think would buy Bitcoin tomorrow
and you hear rumors about stuff you know
in Saudi Arabia as well but I think
they're kind of waiting for the US to
kind of take the lead on some of these
things. So like
do we if we create a strategic Federal
Reserve or strategic you know Bitcoin
reserve does that sort of tee off this
like you know every other country needs
to like kind of get in line and get
coordinated on their Bitcoin policy and
like start to start to buy in?
Yes, I think that is that is happening
but in a very nent and very um you know
everyone's looking around sort of stage.
No one's nobody's bolted out right to be
at first at the door stage but everyone
is definitely looking around. Right. I
was I was in Abu Dhabi.
Mhm. I don't know two months ago for a
bitcoin conference there and it was more
like a geopolitical summit than a
industry conference right there were
delegations sent there from multiple you
know nations like GC you know GCC
nations
and there were explicit like mission
from their national leadership like
reporting directly back to the king the
minister of finance the central bank
head was what does this new
administration really think about
bitcoin how serious are are they about
shifting in a pro bitcoin direction and
not just on this rigid bitcoin reserve
idea but just in general like doing this
180 that we're sort of seeing in motion.
And then what will that mean? Again,
these these governments, they're not
traders. They're not trying to like time
the trade. This is a strategic
orientation. They're trying to
anticipate.
Well, how serious do you think the
American government is now, the new
incoming administration when it comes to
Bitcoin?
They're very serious. I mean, Trump has
said explicitly and he's he's, you know,
about US being crypto capital of of of
the world. Um, he's very serious about
this pro Bitcoin policy. We'll see what
that manifests practically in terms of
say executive orders. we have this
working group that's going to study this
issue uh of a of a stockpile of of
digital assets most likely just bitcoin
um and also stable coins right so though
I think strategically there's a synergy
between stable coins essentially dollar
pegged crypto euro dollars that trade
offshore on on open blockchains mostly
and are essentially like IUS uh in
crypto world denominated in dollars
right so they function just as like a
dollar but you know on an open
blockchain
and these will be mostly Ethereum based
do you think or
so? Yeah, there's some Yeah. Well,
Ethereum at Tron is a very popular um
but there's there's a now that was like
very
nent and I think now there there's a lot
of focus on the regulatory side to pass
laws that would allow say banks to issue
stable coins and get in on the game and
that would you know create this
regulatory perimeter to essentially
expand the dollar network. Mhm.
Stable coins also have this feature
where if they're properly regulated as
they would be um you know forced to uh
under this law would be fully reserved
right with high quality liquid assets
specifically treasury securities most
likely short-term but if they're banks
they could actually term that out. So
you'd have new buyers of you know
basically it's a new balance sheet
capacity to absorb new government debt.
So you expand stable coins around the
world which are right now about 200
trillion 200 billion right uh they're
about 2.5% of of the T bill market. I
think it's very plausible if they pass
this legislation within a few years you
could see that 10x and then just stable
coins themselves are basically giving
the US government 25% of their role on
on the short end. Um
what do you mean by that?
Meaning about 25% of their uh annual
financing capac uh like requirements for
short-term bill issuance
would be absorbed by the stable coin
issuers
uh that are have to reserve the
expansion of the of of the stable coin
sort of issuance. um you know it's an
IOU they have to have an asset to back
that up right liability asset matching
and so you expand the dollar network
again you're sort of penetrating parts
of the global south that don't have
access to correspondent banks where
remittances and you know western union
are very expensive and so this would
just be like an accelerant for I think
global development as well as the
expansion of the dollar network helps
the US government on the margin finance
itself uh so kind of win-win and bitcoin
to first order is what drives the
expansion of the of the global sort of
stable coin market it's what you use to
trade in and out of bitcoin And so if
the unit price of Bitcoin is, you know,
much higher, you need much more stable
coins to just facilitate that trade, let
alone the additional activities in the
crypto ecosystem, some of which are more
speculative than others. Um, and uh, and
so yeah, they had you can see the
synergistic flywheel develop between
Bitcoin and stable coins that starts to
take on a geopolitical dimension. And
then Bitcoin is, you know, seen right
now essentially as a speculative reserve
asset that's complimentary to gold, but
because it's much more volatile, right?
it it's prudently you know risk weighted
right as a much smaller proportion of
your overall portfolio in say a
sovereign wealth you know uh portfolio
uh but it is now like a non-zero thing
right and so as it's total value likely
increases its volatility likely
decreases therefore its risk weighted
you know allocation should rationally go
up
so it's this like sort of positive
feedback loop
yeah and so actually the Bitcoin policy
institute um the organization I'm proud
to now help lead uh actually has a
fellow named Matthew Ferranti who's a a
economist trained and PhD at Harvard
under uh under under Ken Rogoff who's an
economist for the US intelligence
community and he's written a white paper
for us which is the case for Bitcoin as
a uh as a central bank reserve asset.
So I would encourage folks to read
would that is is Satoshi either rolling
in his grave or or or extremely pissed
off at that process.
This is the thing is like you know
eventually Bitcoin is now is going to
play just geopolitical and the sovereign
level and it does open up these larger
questions. Okay, Bitcoin is non-state
money, but when states start to hold it,
what happens to Bitcoin?
Yeah, totally. And then also you get
this wealth transfer. So that's like
this really interesting thing, but it is
sort of anathema to like the initial,
you know, spirit maybe of
I mean, you read the early forums and
how Finny was calling for a Bitcoin
price of 10 million and thought that
states would buy it and it would just be
like a global money, right? And the
question is the argument was more is
there a central issuer that can control
the supply or censor transactions? Yep.
Right. The government owning Bitcoin
does not change the supply of Bitcoin.
It doesn't restrict anybody's ability to
to to transact. Yeah. Like they're just
a participant in the network like
anybody else and they're subject to its
rule set as much as everybody else is.
Right. Uh and so this is the thing you
got to there are more second order
effects though that are important to
assess and as DPI I think we'll be
taking a very close look at these which
is more on the nuance associated with
the development ecosystem which is this
rough consensus model. You've got
Bitcoin developers. you've got kind of
this community of folks that are very
invested in Bitcoin technical
development and there's always a lot of
you know conversations of you know it's
an open source money project right
there's there's code right and so it's
like what sorts of BIPs Bitcoin
improvement um proposals are going to be
considered uh and you know that
conversation was happening at some
levels and then there's big companies
that get involved and that potentially
changes some of the inherent dynamics
associated with that consensus model now
you've got say Bitcoin miners are a big
constituency there are certain things
that they they would rather see versus
other things. Whereas the individual
user or developer or custodian like they
all have their own interests in Bitcoin,
right? And those are going to be
reflected in the kind of the dynamic
political economy of Bitcoin. And now
states, right? As they buy Bitcoin,
they're going to have a view, right? And
it's there's no monopoly power, but now
there a multi-level bargaining about,
you know, the future of this open source
money project, right? And the game
theory of Bitcoin has always been the
incentives always align in a positive
direction that works to Bitcoin's
benefit, right? like the miners and the
users and the and the algorithm are
essentially they structure the game
theory the incentives around this
protocol that's makes it a stable system
right and so again I have no crystal
ball but that's that's that's what you
got to you know that's why it's not
already 10 million right is because
there's some inherent uncertainty in
risk if everyone knew that it was going
to become a global reserve asset
seamlessly from here to 2040 then that
would be priced in right clearly the
market has some uncertainty about that
right and we're going to see I on a path
dependent basis like how it actually
evolves.
Well, it seems like a pretty
constructive setup both for Bitcoin and
for UAP and uh we'll see where where
things go from here and I I really
appreciate your time, Matt. It's always
a pleasure and an honor and uh a lot of
fun.
Thanks for having me, man.
Yeah, of course. All right.
[music]